
Written/Directed/Produced By: Jim Abrahams, David & Jerry Zucker

OPEN:  Theme from Jaws, plane busts out of clouds like Jaws...

Voiceman: The white zone is for immediate loading and unloading
          of passengers only, there is no stopping in the red
          zone.
Voiclady: The white zone is for immediate loading and unloading
          of passengers only, there is no stopping in the red
          zone.
Voiceman: The white zone is for immediate loading and unloading
          of passengers only, there is no stopping in the red
          zone.
Voiclady: The white zone is for immediate loading and unloading
          of passengers only, there is no stopping in the red
          zone.
Zealot#1: Hello, we'd like you to have this flower from the
          religious consciousness church, would you care
          to make a donation?
Elaine  : No, thank you anyway.
Voiceman: The red  zone is for immediate loading and unloading
         of passengers only, there is no stopping in the white
          zone.
Voiclady: NO! The white zone is for immediate loading and
          unloading and there is no stopping in the red zone.
Voiceman: The red zone has always been for loading and unloading
          there is never stopping in a white zone.
Voiclady: Don't tell me which zone is for stopping and which zone
          is for loading.
Voiceman: Listen Betty, don't start up with your white zone shit
          again!
Zealot#2: Hello, we'd like you to have this flower from the
          religious consciousness church, would you like
          to make a donation?
???????? : No thanks, we gave at the office.

AT SECURITY GATE:
Security: Would you put all of your metal objects into this dish
          please ( Man first removes all of his jewelry, etc.
then
          his prosthetic arm and leg)
Voiceman: There's just no stopping in a white zone.

Voiclady: Oh really, Vernon, why pretend, we both know perfectly
          well what it is you're talking about.  You want me to
          have an abortion.
Voiceman: Its really the only sensible thing to do.  If its done
          properly, therapeutically, there's no danger involved.
Someguy : Taxi!
Striker : I'll be back in a minute. ( sets cab's meter running)
Zealot#3: Hello sir, we'd like you to have this flower on behalf
          of the church of Religious consciousness, would you
          caaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaarr...
Worker#1: Hey, Larry, where's the forklift? ( To worker#2 who is
          busy guiding a plane into a hanger )
Worker#2: Forklift?  Its over there by the baggage loader.
          ( Gestures the direction of baggage loader with
          guide sticks causing the plane to go that direction
          and to come crashing into the terminal)
People  : ( In terminal )  LOOK OUT!!!! ARGGGGGGGGGGGG!!!!!!!!
          (pandemonium).
Striker : Elaine!!!!!
Elaine  : Ted!
Striker : I came home early and found your note.  I guess you
          meant for me to read it later. Elaine, I've got to
          to talk to you.
Elaine  : I just don't want to go over it anymore.
Striker : I know things haven't been right for a long time,
          but... It'll be different.  Like it was in the
          beginning.  If you'll just be patient I can work
          things out.
Elaine  : I have been patient and I tried to help, but you
          wouldn't even let me do that.
Striker : Don't you feel anything for me at all anymore?
Elaine  : It takes so many things to make love last.  But,
          most of all, it takes respect, and I can't live
          with the man I don't respect.
Striker : ( To camera ) What a PISSER!
PA      : Captain Oever, white courtesy phone.  Captain Clarence
          Oever, white courtesy phone.
OEVER PICKS UP A RED PHONE.
Operator: NO! THE WHITE PHONE.
Oever   : Oh! ( picks up white phone ) This is Captain Oever!
Operator: One moment for your call from the Mayo Clinic.
PA      : Captain Oever, white courtesy phone.  Captain Clarence
          Oever, white courtesy phone.
Oever   : I'VE GOT IT!
PA      : Thank you.
Operator: Go ahead with your call.
MayoDoct: Uh, this is Doctor Brody at the Mayo Clinic.  There's a
          passenger on your Chicago flight 209er, a little girl
          named Lisa Davis, en route to Minneapolis.  She's
          scheduled for a heart transplant, we'd like you to tell
          her mother we found a donor an hour ago.  We have the
          heart here, ready for surgery. . . We must have the
          recipient on the operating table within 6 hours.  I
          want you to make sure she's kept in a reclined position
          and that a continuous watch is kept on her IV.  Also,
          its very important that she remain calm. . .
Striker : Elaine, if you just give me one more . . .
Elaine  : Its too late, Ted. When I get back to Chicago, I'm
          going to start my life all over again. I'm sorry.
Zealot#4: Excuse me, we'd like you to have this flower from the
          Church of Religious Conscious. . .PUNCH . . .
          EWWWWWWWWWWWWW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Attendnt: Hi! Well, good evening. Oh, there you go.
          You just follow all the way back.  Hello.
Victor  : Any word on that storm lifting over Salt Lake
          Clarence?
Oever   : No not likely, Victor.  I just reviewed the area report
          for 1600 hours through 2400.
Victor  : Uh, huh ...
Oever   : There's a front stalled over the Dakotas, backed all
          the way to Utah.
Victor  : Yeah, well, if she decides to push over to the great
          lakes, it could get plenty slippery.
Oever   : Uh, huh.
Victor  : What about the southern route, around Tulsa?
Oever   : I double checked the terminal forecast and winds aloft
          and I had cloudy ceilings all the way.
Victor  : Where do they top out?
Oever   : Well . . . there's some light scattered cover to 20,000
          icing around 15. . .
Worker3 : Wahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh..
          (falling off ladder from washing plane's windows)
Victor  : Boy looks like the original plan ought to be the
          best bet.
Oever   : Denver it is.
Murdock : Sorry Clarence. Latest weather report shows everything
          is sopped in from Salt Lake to Lincoln.
Oever   : Oh, Hi Roger! Glad to have you aboard! Victor, this is
          Roger Murdock, Victor Basta.
Victor  : How do you do Roger?
Murdock : Nice to meet you!
Oever   : Roger, I was telling Victor that I reviewed the area
          report for 1600 hours through 2400 there'sa front
          stalled over the Dakotas. . .
Ticketer: There you go, thank you.
Striker : Can you tell me if Elaine Dickenson is on this
          flight?
Ticketer: Well, the whole flight crew has boarded.  Let me see.
          Oh yes, she is on board.
Striker : I'd like one ticket to Chicago.  No baggage.
( Guy still waits in Taxi for Striker)
Ticketer: Smoking or non-smoking.
Striker : Smoking, please.
Ticketer: ( Hands Ted a ticket which is literally smoking) There.
          Have a nice trip.
FLASHBACK: STRIKER.
     VOICE: Striker, this is red leader 4.  Primary target
            covered by fog.  Decision to proceed is yours.
            decision to proceed IS YOURS. IS YOUUUURRRRS...
            YOUUUUUUUUUUUURRRRRRRRRRRRRSSSSSSSSSSSSS.
Jiveman1: Sheeeet, man, that honkey mus' be messin' my old lady
          got to be runnin' col' upsihd down his head!
Subtitle: GOLLY, THAT WHITE FELLOW SHOULD STAY AWAY FROM MY WIFE
          OR I WILL PUNCH HIM.
Jiveman2: Hey Holm, I can dig it!  You know he ain't gonna lay no
          mo' big rap upon you man!
Subtitle: YES, HE IS WRONG FOR DOING THAT.
Jiveman1: I say hey sky, s'other say I won say I pray to J I get
          the same ol' same ol.
Subtitle: I KNEW A MAN IN A SIMILAR PREDICAMENT, AND HE ENDED UP
          BEING SORRY.
Jiveman2: Knock yourself a pro slick. Gray matter back got
          perform' us' down I take TCBin, man'.
Subtitle: DON'T BE NAIVE ARTHUR.  EACH OF US FACES A CLEAR MORAL
          CHOICE.
Jiveman1: You know wha' they say: See a broad to get that bodiac
          lay'er down an' smack 'em yack 'em.
Subtitle: EARLY TO BED, EARLY TO RISE, MAKES A MAN HEALTHY,
   WEALTHY AND WISE.
Together: Col' got to be! Yo!
Subtitle: HOW TRUE!
Together: Sheeeeeeet!
Subtitle: GOLLY.
SIGH ON PLANE LIGHTS UP
ZDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD?
3      NO SMOKING             3
3      El NO A YOU SMOKO      3
3                             3
3      FASTEN SEATBELTS       3
3      PUTANA DA SEATBELTZ    3
@DDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDY
Oldlady : Nervous?
Striker : Yes.
Oldlady : First time?
Striker : NO, I've been nervous lots of times.
Elaine  : Hi, we'll be taking off real soon.  SO I'd better
          fasten you in tight.
Dyingirl: Thank you.  Oh, mother this is so exciting.
Mother  : I know, but you must get some rest.
Elaine  : That's good advice.  You relax and I'll be back right
          after we take off.
Lovelorn: God Bill. I am going to miss you so much.
Leaving : Oh, I'm gonna miss you too. Promise you'll write??
Lovelorn: SIGH . . . Every day.  Bill...
Conductr: Better get on board son.  All aboard!!!!!
Oever   : 209er to ground control.  We're loaded and ready to
          taxi.
Lovelorn: Goodbye Bill!
Leaving : Goodbye darling. I love you darling.
Tower   : 2-0-9er, taxi to runway 1-9er.
Leaving : Goodbye darling.
Lovelorn: Have your picture taken the minute you get there. And
          send me one, alright?
Leaving : Okay, here, hurry. ( he throws her his watch as she
          runs along the side of the taxiing plane. )
Lovelorn: Oh, but your watch, but you shouldn't.  You're gonna
          need this!
Leaving : Its alright.  It doesn't work.
Lovelorn: Bill!
Leaving : Goodbye darling.
Lovelorn: Bill! ( Knocks over light tower while running )  Bill!
          Bill! I'll keep it with me all the time, I swear to
          you.
Leaving : I know darling, take care of yourself, goodbye.
Tower   : Flight 2-0-9er, you're cleared for take off.
Oever   : Roger!
Murdock : Huh?
Tower   : L.A. departure frequency 1-2-3 point 9er.
Oever   : Roger!
Murdock : Huh?
        : Re-quest Vector, over!
Oever   : What?
Tower   : 2-0-9er clear for vector 2-3-4.
Murdock : We have clearance Clarence.
Oever   : Roger, Roger.  What's our Vector Victor?
Tower   : Tower's radio clearance, over!
Oever   : That's Clarence Oever! Oever.
Tower   : Roger.
Murdock : Huh?
Tower   : Roger, over.
Murdock : Huh?
Oever   : Huh?
Attendnt: DO you feel alright sir?
Striker : Oh, I haven't flown for a long time.

Oever   : Good evening ladies and gentleman, this is Captain
          Oever speaking.  Well, be cruising at 36,000 feet
          this evening.  Our arrival time in Chicago will be
          10:45 pm central time. The temperature there is
         currently 62 degrees with a 20% chance of precipitation.
         Meanwhile, relax and enjoy your flight.
Elaine : Would you like something to read?
Oldlady: Do you have anything light?
Elaine : Uhhhhhhhhhhhhh... how about this leaflet, famous Jewish
         sports legends?
Oldlady: Yes, thank you.
Elaine : Teeeeeeeeeeeed!?! What are you doing here?
Striker: Elaine, I've got to talk to you!
Elaine : Y-Y-Yo-You shouldn't have come, I don't have time now!
Oldlady: Stewardess . . .
Elaine : Excuse me!
Oldlady: No wonder you're upset! She's lovely! And a darling
         figure.  Supple pouting breasts.  . . firm thighs . . .
         its a shame you two don't get along.
Striker: Yes, I know, things used to be different.  I remember
         when we first met.  It was during the war. ( Flashback)
         I was in the Air Force stationed in Drambui, off the
         Barbary coast.  I used to hang out at the Magumba bar.
         It was a rough place, the seediest dive on the wharf.
         Populated with every reject and cut-throat from Bombay
         to Calcutta.  Its worse than Detroit.  The mood in the
         place was downright ugly.  You wouldn't walk in there
         unless you knew how to use your fists.  You could count
         on a fight breaking out almost every night. ( fight
         between two women breaks out. Chairs are crashed . . .)
         ( Saturday Night Fever music starts to play when juke
         box is clobbered  I didn't go there that night to fall
         in love I just dropped in for a couple of drinks.  But,
         suddenly there she was.  I was captivated, entranced.
         It hit me like a thunderbolt.   I had to ask the
         guy next to me to pinch me to make sure I wasn't
         dreaming.  I was afraid to approach her, but that
         night fate was on my side. ( The man Elaine is dancing
         with gets a knife in his back.  He tries to ascertain
         help from Elaine by pointing with both hands at his
         back, but Elaine thinks that this is a new dance move
         and mimics him.  He collapses and dies.  Striker begins
         to dance disco style with Elaine, soon a crowd gathers
         to watch.  Both Ted and Elaine dance in humanly
         impossible ways.  The crowd cheers. Next the bar is
         empty, and its the end of the night.  Ted and Elaine
         are still there with the 2 fighting women.  ( end
         flashback ) We laughed, we talked, we danced I never
         wanted it to end.  I guess I still don't.  But, enough
         about me, I hope this hasn't been boring for you.  Its
         just that whenever I talk about Elaine, I get so carried
         away, I loose all track of time. ( Oldlady has hung
         herself )

Elaine  : Would you like to order dinner now?
Father  : Yes, Joey will have the steak and my wife and I will
          have the fish.
Joey    : When can I see the cockpit dad?
Father  :Joey, I think the pilots are probably too busy flying
         the  plane for that.
Joey    : Awww, geee whiz!!!!!!!!!!
Elaine  : I'll tell you what Joey, I'll talk to the Captain and
         see what I can arrange.
Joey    : Gee, that'd be swell!
Elaine  : Would you gentleman care to order your dinners?
Jiveman1: Bet babe, slide a piece a da porter, drink si' run th'
          java.
Subtitle: I WOULD LIKE THE STEAK PLEASE.
Jiveman2: Lookie here, I can dig grease and butter on some
          draggin' fruit garden.
Subtitle: I'LL HAVE THE FISH.
littlboy: Excuse me, I happened to be passing and I thought you
          might like some coffee.
littgirl: Oh, that's very nice of you.  Thank you. Oh, won't you
          sit down?
Littlboy: Oh thank you.  Cream?
Littgirl: No thank you, I take it black . . . . . . like my men.
Striker : Well, you see . . . ( to a different passenger --
          new flashback, reminiscent of the Blue Lagoon. )
     Elaine: Oh TED! I never knew I could be so happy.  These
             few months have been just wonderful.  Tomorrow,
             why don't we drive up the coast to that little
             seafood place and . . . what's the matter???
    Striker: My orders came through.  My squadron ships out
             tomorrow, we're bombing the storage depots at
             Daiquiri at 18:00 hours.  We're coming in from the
             North, below their radar.
     Elaine: When will you be back?
    Striker: I can't tell you that? It's classified.
     Elaine: Ted, please be careful.  I worry about you so much.
    Striker: I love you Elaine.
     Elaine: I love you!
( Return from flashback, the passenger stabs himself to death )
Denver  : Flight 2-0-9er, this is Denver flight control.  You are
          approaching some rough weather.  Please climb to 42,000
          feet.
Oever   : Roger, Denver.
Elaine  : We have a visitor. . .
Oever   : Hello.
Murdock : Hi!
Elaine  : This is Captain Oever,  Mr Murdock and Mr Basta. This
          is Joey Hammond. . .
Oever   : Well hi Joey.
Murdock : Come on up here, you can see better.
Oever   : We have something here for our special visitors ( takes
          out a model airplane for Joey ), would you like to have
          it?
Joey    : Thank youuuuuuu!  Thanks alot!
Oever   : Sure.  You ever been in a cockpit before?
Joey    : No sir, I've never been up in a plane before.
Oever   : You ever . . . seen a grown man naked ?
Murdock : Do you want me to check the weather Clarence?
Oever   : No, why don't you take care of it.  Joey, did ya
          ever hang around a gymnasium?
Elaine  : We'd better get back now Joey!
Oever   : Noooooooo, Joey can stay here for a while if he'd
          like.
Joey    : Could I?
Elaine  : Okay, if you don't get in the way.
Murdock : Flight 2-0-9er to Denver radio, climbing to cruise
          at 42,000.  Will report again over Lincoln.  Over and
          out.
Joey    : Wait a minute! I know you. You're Kareem Abdul-Jabar.
          You played basketball for the Los Angeles Lakers.
Murdock : I'm sorry son, but you must have me confused with some-
          one else.  My name is Roger Murdock.  I'm the co-pilot.
Joey    : You are Kareem! I've seen you play.  My dad's got
          season tickets.
Murdock : I think you should go back to your seat now Joey.
          Right Clarence?
Oever   : Nahhhhhhhhhhhhhhh, he's not bothering anyone, let him
          stay here.
Murdock : But just remember, my name is ROGER MURDOCK.  I'm an
          airline pilot.
Joey    : I think you're the greatest, but my dad says you don't
          work hard enough on defence.  And he says that lots of
          times, you don't even run down court.  And that you
          don't really try . . . except during the playoffs.
Murdock : The hell I don't!! ( grabs joey by collar ) LISTEN KID!
          I've been hearing that crap ever since I was at UCLA.
          I'm out there busting my buns every night. Tell your
          old man to drag Walton and Denier up and down the
          court for 48 minutes.
Oever   : Joey, do you like movies about gladiators?
Striker : Elaine, just hear me out.  I know things haven't been
          right for a long time, but it'll be different.  like
          it was in the beginning, remember?
Elaine  : I remember everything.  All I have are memories.
          Mostly, I remember the nights when we were together.
          I remember how you used to hold me and... how I used
          to sit on your face and wiggle and...afterwards how
          we'd watch 'til the sun came up. When it did, it was
          almost like . . . like . . . each new day was made
          only for us.
Striker : That's the way I've always wanted it to be Elaine.
Elaine  : But it won't be . . . not as long as you insist on
          living in the past.
( Striker flashes back -- )
     Voice: You're too low Ted . . . YOU'RE TOO LOW!

( Now in military mental hospital.  Random mental hospital
conversation has been skipped. Striker is painting a picture of
a guy in the middle of an explosion )
     Doctor : Okay Robert, slip em down, this won't hurt much . .
     Elaine : You got a telegram from headquarters today.
     Striker: HEADQUARTERS?!? What is it?
     Elaine : Well, its a big building where generals meet.  But
              that's not important right now.  They've cleared
              you of any blame for what happened in that raid.
              Isn't that good news?
     Striker: Is it? Because of my mistake 6 men didn't return
              from that raid.
     Elaine : 7, Lieutenant Zip died this morning. . . ( Striker
              spits out drink ) The Doctor says you'll be out in
              a week, isn't that wonderful?
     Striker: Wish I could say the same for George Zip.
     Elaine : Be patient Ted, nobody expects you to get over this
              immediately.
     Subject: Hey Striker, How bout a break, I'm getting tired.
     Striker: Yeah, alright.  Take 5.  ( We see that the subject
              has been standing in a contorted stance with an
              explosion backdrop exactly mimicking the painting
              Striker has been working on )
     Elaine:  I have found a wonderful apartment for us.  It has
              a brick fireplace and a cute little bedroom with
              mirrors on the ceiling and . . .
     Jeleen :  Red leader, Red Leader . . . I'm goin' down (
               makes gunner noises )
     Striker: Captain Jeleen.  He thinks he's a pilot still
              fighting the war.
     Jeleen : I've found the tunnel Johnson!! Its this way $25
              for a cigarette is too much!
     Herwitz: Ohhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh.... uhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh...
     Elaine : What's his problem?
     Striker: Its Lt. Herwitz.  Severe shell shock.  Thinks he's
              Ethel Merman.
     ( We cut back to herwitz, but he is now replaced with the
       real Ethel Merman )
     Herwitz: You'lllllll be swell...
              You'll be great...
              Gonna have the whole world on a plate.
              Startin' here.
              Startin' now.
              Honey, everything's coming up rosseehhhhhhhhsss.
              ( He ( she ) faints )
     Striker: War is hell.
( Meanwhile back on the plane )
Attendnt: Would you like some coffee before we serve dinner?
Striker : No, no thank you.
Attendnt: Would either of you like another cup of coffee?
Mother2 : I will, but Jim won't.
Father  : I think I will have another cup of coffee.
Mother2 : ( To herself in an echo voice ) Jim never has a
          second cup at home.
Attendnt: Excuse me sister . . .
Nun     : Yeahhhs?
Attendnt: There's little girl on board up front who's ill and ..
Nun     : Oh, yes. I saw, poor child.
Attendnt: Could I borrow your guitar . . . I think maybe I could
          cheer her up.
Nun     : Of course.
Attendnt: Ohhhh.... thank you.  ( She drags guitar across the
          passengers heads )
Attendnt: Hi!
Mother  : Hi!
Attendnt: Do you mind if I talk to your daughter?
Mother  : No I think that'd be nice.
Attendnt: Hi, I'm Randy.
Dyingirl: I'm Lisa . . . YOU HAVE A GUITAAAAR!
Attendnt: Uh, huh!  I thought maybe you'd like to hear a song.
Dyingirl: I'd love too!
Attendnt: Okay.  Let's see, uh... this is one of my favorites!

          I've traveled the banks of the river of Jordan
          To find where it flows to the sea
          I looked in the eyes of the cold and the hungry
          And I saw that I was looking at meeeeeee.
          And I wanted to know if life had a purpose
          And what it all means in the end
          In the silence I listened to voices inside me
          And they told me again and again.

          There is only one river ( Knocks IV out of Lisa's
          arm with guitar but doesn't notice )
          There is only one sea
          And it flows through you
          And it flows through me ( Lisa is having conniptions
          about her IV as if about to die )
          There is only one people
          We are one in the same ( The whole plane begins to
          clap along )
          We are all one spirit
          One naaaaaaaaaaaammmme.
          We are the father
          We are one.
          We are one.
          We are one.
Oever   : Little late tonight.  We've been waiting for you.
Elaine  : Who wants to be first?
Murdock : Go ahead Clarence, I got 'er.
Elaine  : How's the weather?
Murdock : Not so good.  We've got some heavy stuff ahead of us.
          It might get rough again unless we can climb on top.
Striker : ( To a guy in a turban ) Yeah, after the war, I just
          wanted to get as far away from things as possible.
          Elaine and I joined the Peace Corps.  We were assigned
          to an isolated tribe: the Malumbos. ( Flashback to
          African tribe ) They'd never seen  Americans before.
     Striker : It was really a challenge during the year
               introducing them to our western culture.
               At first they didn't know what to think
               of us, but soon we gained their trust.
    Elaine   : It will help you better prepare and store
               foods for the up and coming Monsoon months.
               Also, Supperware products are ideal for storing
               leftovers to help stretch your food dollar.  This
               2 quart Sealz-em Right container will keep hot dog
               buns fresh for days.
     Striker : You must understand, these people had been
               completely isolated from civilization.  No one
               had ever outlined a physical fitness program
               for them and they had no athletic equipment.
               I started them on simple calisthenics and slowly
               worked them up to rudimentary game skills.  And
               finally, advanced competitive theory.  I was
               patient with them and they were eager to learn.
               they seemed to enjoy themselves.  It was probably
               due to the advanced American techniques that we
               were able to bridge the generations of isolation
               communicate so successfully with Mulambos.
               ( The Mulambos start to play basketball like pros)
               I think they're finally getting the hang of it
               when we re-enlist, I'll teach them baseball.
    Elaine   : Ted, I don't want to stay here, its time for us
               to go back home to the plans we made before the
               war.
Striker  : Alot of people made plans before the war . . .
           like George Zip.  It was at that moment that I
           first realized Elaine had doubts about our
           relationship.  And that as much as anything else
           led to my drinking problem ( He pours his drink
           on himself.)  We did come back to the states, I tried
           a number of jobs . . . well, I could go on for hours,
           but I would probably start to bore you.  ( Guy in
           turban pulls out knife and points it to his heart )
           I really couldn't blame Elaine ( Guy stabs himself
           and moans ) she wanted a career.
Oldlady2: Uhhhhhhhh...... I can't stand it. Ohhhhhhh.
Elaine  : Yes?
Oldlady2: Oh... its my stomach.  I haven't felt this aweful since
          we saw that Ronald Reagan film.  uhh.
Elaine  : I'll see if I can find some Dramamine. ( Goes to
          cockpit ) Captain, one of the woman passengers is
          very sick.
Oever   : Airsick?
Elaine  : I think so, but I've never seen it so acute.
Oever   : Find out if there's a doctor on board as quietly as
          you can. . . Joey . . . have you ever been in a, a
          Turkish prison?
Father  : Ohhhhhhhhhh, I shouldn't have had that second cup of
          coffee.  ( he vomits )
Mother2 : ( In echo voice ) Jim never vomits at home.
Elaine  : I'm sorry I had to wake you, I'm just looking for a
          doctor, there's nothing to worry about.
Woman3  : Stewardess, I think the man sitting next to me is
          a Doctor.
Elaine  : Sir, excuse me sir, I am sorry I have to wake you,
          sir, are you a doctor?
Rumack  : That's right.
Elaine  : We have some passengers that are very sick, could you
          come take a look at them?
Rumack  : Yes, of course. . . ( To sick woman ) Let me see your
          tongue. ( eggs begin to come out of her mouth. Rumack
          cracks one and a bird flys out ) I'll be back in a
          minute. ( To Elaine )
          You'd better tell the Captain we've got to land as soon
          as possible, we've got to get them to the hospital. . .
Elaine  : A hospital . . what is it?
Rumack  : Its a big building with patients, but that's not
          important right now.  Tell the captain I must speak
          to him.
Elaine  : Certainly.
( Victor is getting sick )
Oever   : Victor, we're running into some heavy weather . . .
          can you ( Victor passes out ) Roger! Take OVER!
Rumack  : Captain, how soon can you land?
Oever   : I can't tell.
Rumack  : You can tell me, I'm a doctor.
Oever   : NO, I mean I'm just not sure.
Rumack  : Well, can't you take a guess?
Oever   : Well, not for another 2 hours.
Rumack  : You can't take a guess for another 2 hours?
Oever   : No, no, no.  I mean we can't land for another 2 hours
          fog has closed down everything this side of the
          mountains.  We've got to get through to Chicago.

????????????
        : What is it doctor?
Rumack  : I'm not sure.  I haven't seen anything like this since
          the Anita Bryant concert.  What was it we had for
          dinner tonight?
Elaine  : Well, we had a choice, steak or fish.
Rumack  : Yes, yes, I remember, I had lasagna.  What did he
          have?
Elaine  : Fish . . .
Attendnt: Doctor, there are 2 more sick people and the rest of
          the passengers are worried.
Rumack  : I'll go take care of the passengers.  Find out what the
          two sick people had for dinner.
Oever   : This is Captain Oever speaking, been a little bumpy up
          here, but we'll be past it in a couple minutes.  A few
          points of interest we are now flying over Hoover damn
          and a little later on, we'll pass just to the south of
          the Grand Canyon.  Meanwhile, relax and enjoy your
          flight, okay?  CHICAGO: THIS IS FLIGHT 2-0-9er. . .
          We're in trouble, we've got to have all traffic below
          us cleared.  I want a priority approach and landing in
          Chicago.
Mother2:  Stewardess, my husband is very sick can you do
          something please?
Elaine  : Well, the doctor will be with you in just a moment.
          One thing, do you know what he had for dinner?
Mother2 : Yes, of course, we both had fish.  Why?
Elaine  : Oh, its nothing to be alarmed about.  We'll be back to
          you very quickly.
Elaine  : Dr Rumack, Mr Hammond ate fish, and Randy said there
          five more cases and they all had fish too.
Rumack  : And the Co-Pilot had fish, what did the navigator have?
Elaine  : He had fish.
Rumack  : Alright, now we know what we're up against.  Every
          passenger on this flight who had fish for dinner will
          become violently ill in the next half hour ( Oever
          notices he had fish and begins to come down with the
          symptoms as they are described )
Elaine  : Just how serious is it Doctor?
Rumack  : Extremely serious.  It starts with a slight fever and
          dryness of the throat.  When the virus penetrates the
          red blood cells, the victim becomes dizzy begins to
          experience an itchy rash, then the poison goes to work
          on the central nervous system, severe muscle spasms
          followed by the inevitable grueling.  At this point,
          the entire digestive system collapses accompanied by
          uncontrollable flatulence ( Oever begins to fart )
          Until finally, the poor bastard is reduced to a
          quivering wasted piece of jelly.
Oever  : Au--to--ma-tic pi-lot.
Elaine : ( Searches for button ) Automatic pilot, automatic
         pilot, there it is . . . ( Otto begins to inflate)
Rumack : I'll go back to the passengers.
Chicago: Come in 2-0-9er, this is Chicago.  Flight 2-0-9er,
         come in.
Elaine : This is Elaine Dickenson, I'm the stewardess,
         Captain Oever has passed out on the floor and
         the co-pilot and navigator too.  We're in
         terrible trouble, over.
MCrosky: Roger, Elaine, Roger.  I read you. This is Steve
         McCrosky at Chicago air control,  Back to you in
         a minute ( To Tower ) Hold all takeoffs, I don't
         want another plane in the air.  When the 508
         reports, bring it straight in.  Put out a general
         bulletin to suspend meal service on flights out
         of Los Angeles.  Tell all dispatchers to remain at
         their posts, its gonna be long night.  How bout
         some coffee Johnny?
Johnny : NO THANKS!
MCrosky: I want the weather on every landing field this side
         of the line, no matter what the size.  Do you
         understand?  Anyplace, anyplace where there's a
         chance to land that plane.  ( To Siamese twins )
         Stan, go up stairs to the tower and get a runway
         diagram.  Terry, check down the field for emergency
         equipment.
Airdude: Chief we got fog right down to the deck, every
         place east of the Rockies.  There's no possible
         place to land, they'll have to come through to
         Chicago.
MCrosky: Looks like I picked the wrong week to quit smoking.
         I want the best available man on this, a man who
         knows that plane inside and out and won't crack
         under pressure.
Johnny : How 'bout Mr Rogers?
MCrosky: Get me REX KRAMER!  Elaine, right next to the throttle
         is the air speed gauge. What speed does it indicate?
Elaine : 520 miles per hour.
MCrosky: Good now, check your altitude.  That's the dial just
         below and to the right of the air speed indicator.
Elaine : 35,000 feet.  NO wait, 34,000 feet . . . NO WAIT,
         its dropping.  Its dropping fast, why's it doing
         that?  Oh my god, the automatic pilot, its
         deflating.
MCrosky: Don't panic, on the belt line of the automatic pilot
         there's a tube, now that is the manual inflation
         nozzle.  Take it out and blow on it.
Passngr: What the hell's going on up there?
Rumack : Elaine?
Elaine : Yes, Doctor.
Rumack : Elaine, you're a member of this crew. Can you face
         a few unpleasant facts?
Elaine : NO.
Rumack : Alright, unless I get those people to a hospital
         quickly, I can't even be sure of saving their lives.
         Now, is there anyone on board who can land this
         plane?
Elaine : Well, no, no one I know of.
Rumack : I think you ought to know what are chances are.  The
         life of everyone on board depends on one thing:
         finding someone on board who can not only fly this
         plane, but who didn't have fish for dinner.
Elaine : Ladies and gentleman, this is your stewardess speaking
         We regret any inconvenience the sudden cabin movement
         might have caused this is due to periodic airpockets we
         encountered.  There's no reason to be alarmed and we
hope
         you enjoy the rest of your flight.  By the way, is there
         anyone on board who knows how to fly a plane?
( PANDEMONIUM ENSUES, EVERYONE RUNS EVERYWHERE . . .)
( Back at Rex's house )
Paul   : Hello, I am Paul Puree from the airline, I'm here to
         pick up Captain Kramer.
MsKramr: Oh, yes come in Paul, Rex will be right out.
Dog    : Ruff, Ruff ( starts to grab paul's leg)
MsKramr: Shep, sit. So, I understand you all have a real
         emergency down there.
Paul   : Yes, something like that, but as I said, they didn't
         have time to ( tries to get dog off leg ) tell me
         very much.  Ahhhh.
MsKramr: Shep, no. I'll bet you have exciting things happen all
         the time down there.
Paul   : Well, the airline business does have its moments ( still
         trying to get rid of dog ) but after a while you get
         used to it.
MsKramr: Shep! Come.  He gets so excited when new people are
         here.  Are you a pilot yourself?
Paul   : NO,  (ahhhhhhhhhhhhhh) I am in a training program. . .
Kramer : Its unbelievable, just unbelievable, you know how many
         times I've warned them about food inspection.
MsKramr: You'd think after all these years someone would listen
         to you ( dog and Paul wrestling in background)
Kramer : Airport management, the FAA and the airlines.  They're
         all cheats and liars.  Alright, lets get outta here.
Attndnt: I'm sorry to bother you, I was just looking for someone
         with flying experience.
Striker: When they built those roads they had no thought of
         drainage in mind, so we had to take a special jeep
         up to the main road.  In fact, we were lucky to even
         get a jeep since just the day before the only one we
         had broke down, had a bad axle. ( The passenger
         next to him douses himself in gasoline and lights
         a match, then pauses while stewardess talks to
         Striker )
Attndnt: Excuse me sir, there's been a little problem in the
         cockpit . . .
Striker: The cockpit . . . what is it?
Attndnt: Its the little room in the front of the plane where the
         pilots sit, but that's not important now.  You see the
         first officer is ill and the Captain need someone to
         help him with the radio.  Do you know anything about
         planes?
Striker: Well, I flew in the war, but that was years ago, I
         wouldn't know anything about it.
Attndnt: Won't you go up, please? ( Striker agrees, passenger
         next to him blows out match, but blows himself up
         accidently anyway )
Striker: The stewardess said . . . BOTH PILOTS????????
Rumack : Can fly this plane?
Striker: Surely you can't be serious?
Rumack : I am serious, and don't call me Shirley!
Attndnt: Doctor, I've checked everyone. Mr. Striker is the
         only one.
Rumack : What flying experience have you had?
Striker: I flew single engine fighters in the Air Force,
         but this plane has four engines.  Its an entirely
         different kind of flying, altogether.
All Together: Its a entirely different kind of flying.
Striker: Besides, I haven't touched any kind of plane in six
         years.




Rumack : Mr. Striker, I know nothing about flying, but there's
         one thing I do know:  You're the only one on this plane
         who can possibly fly it, you're the only chance we've
         got.
MCrosky: NO, that's right, that's what I said . . . tell them all
         to acknowledge and stand-by.  Get me every piece of
         emergency equipment you can reach.  Alert rescue units
         every mile of the way, from here to the rockies.
Towergy: Chief . . .
MCrosky: We'll need a pre-landing flight check, tell 'em I want
         it in the dispatch office and tell 'em I want it here
         fast.
Towergy: Its your wife.
MCrosky: ( To wife ) I want the kids in bed by nine, the dog
         fed, the yard watered and the gate locked.  And get a
         note to the milkman  NO MORE CHEESE!  CLICK! Where the
         hell's Kramer?
Kramer : No, we can't do that, the risk of a flame out is too
         great, leave 'em at 24,000 . . . no, feet.  One of the
         passengers is gonna land that plane.
Paul   : Is that possible?
Kramer : Possible, its a 100-1 shot. ( Car hits a cyclist )
Kramer : I know this guy.
Paul   : You do?
Cyclist: Asssss-hole!
Paul   : Who is it?
Kramer : Name is Ted Striker, I flew with him during the war,
         it won't make my job any easier tonight.  Ted Striker
         was a crack flight leader, up to a point.  He was one
         of those men who, lets say, felt to much inside, maybe
         you know the kind.  Went all to pieces on one particular
         mission, lets just hope that doesn't happen tonight.
Striker: Lets see.  Altitude, 24,000 feet... level flight, speed
         520 knots. Course, 0-9er-0, trim, mixture, wash, rinse,
         spin . . .
Elaine : Ted, what are you doing here?  You can't fly this plane!
Striker: That's what I've been trying to tell these people.
Rumack : Elaine, I don't have time to say this gently so I'll be
         very direct everyone on this plane is in a desperate
         situation, Mr. Striker is the only hope we've got.
Striker: Those are the flaps, this is the thrust, this must turn
         on the landing lights ( Plane starts to nose dive when
         that knob is turned )  Mayday, mayday, mayday.
MCrosky: MAYDAY? What the hell does that mean?
Johnny : Mayday? Why that's the Russian New Year.  You know,
         we'll have a big parade, we'll serve hot hor'doevres . .
Oldlady: I can't stand it anymore, I've got to get outta here.
         I've gotta get outta here.
Elaine : Calm down get ahold of yourself.
Gentlmn: Stewardess, please, let me handle this ( grabs her and
         starts to shake her )
Gntlmn2: Calm down, now get back to your seat, I'll take care of
         this.  CALM DOWN, GET AHOLD OF YOURSELF <SLAP>!

Nun    : Mr, your wanted on the phone . . .  Everything's going
         to be alright < SLAP >! Please.
Gntlmn3: Sister, I'll handle this.        < SLLLLLLLAAAAAAAAPPP >
( There is now a line of people with baseball bats and whips
waiting to help the woman )
Zealot5: Excuse me, we'd like you to have this flower ( Kramer
         punches the man )
Zealot6: Excuse me sir, would you . . . ( Kramer pushes him out
         of the way )
Zealot7: Donations for the Reverend Moon? ( Kramer punches him )
Zealot8: Jews for Jesus? ( Crack ! ) Uhhhhhhhhhhhhhh...
Zealot9: Read about Jehovah's witness? ( Kramer kicks him )
Zealt10: How about Buddhism? ( Whack! )
Zealt11: Help Jerry's kids? ( punch! )
Zealt12: Scientology?
Zealt13: Avoid nuclear power? ( Bap ! Bop ! )
Announc: Your attention please!  No Frills passengers no arriving
         please have your baggage claim checks ready to show the
         attendant upon leaving the terminal. ( Passengers are
         coming down the conveyer belt for luggage )
Kramer : I know but this guy has no flying experience at'all.
         He's a menace to himself and everything else in the
         air. . . yes, birds too.
MCrosky: Okay, okay, he's a terrible risk, but what other choice
         have we got?  That's the whole story there Rex,
         everything we know.
Kramer : Alright Steve, lets face a few facts.  As you know I
         flew with this man during the war.  He's going to
         have enough on his mind without worrying about those
         times when . . . when things weren't so good.
MCrosky: Right now, things aren't so good.
Kramer : Let me tell you something Steve, Ted Striker was a
         top notch squadron leader a long time ago.
MCrosky: I want you to get on the horn and talk that guy down
         Now, you're going to have to let him get the feel of
         that airplane, and you'll have to talk him on to the
         approach.  So help me, you'll have to talk him right
         down to the ground. ( Crash )
Kramer : Very well, put Striker on the speaker.
MCrosky: Use my radio there.  Looks like I picked the wrong week
         to quit drinking. ( gulp )
Towergy: Now, you can work 'im direct from here, Captain.
Kramer : Thanks. Striker . . . Striker, this is Captain Rex
         Kramer speaking.
Striker: YES, -CAPTAIN- Kramer, I read you loud and clear.
Kramer : Alright, its obvious you remember me.  What do you
         say you and I just forget about everything except
         what we have to do now.
Striker: Lets not kid each other _Kramer_ you know I've never
         flown a bucket like this. I'm gonna need all the
         luck there is.
Kramer : Standby Striker.  Our one hope is to build this man
         up, I've got to give him all the confidence I can.
         Striker- have you ever flown a multi-engine plane
         before?
Striker: NO, never.
Kramer : ( TO McCrosky thinking that the radio to Striker is off)
         SHIT! This is a God damned waste of time, there's no
         way he can land that plane.
MCrosky: (Radio is still on) Grab ahold of yourself, you gotta
         talk him down, you gotta.
Kramer : We ought to route him in Lake Michigan, at least we'll
         avoid killing innocent people.
MCrosky: You're the only chance they've got.
Kramer : Alright, Striker, you listen and listen close flying a
         plane is no different from riding a bicycle, just alot
         harder to put baseball cards in the spokes.  Now, first
         I want you to get the feel of the plane.  Later, we'll
         run down the landing procedure.  Now, I want you to
         disengage the automatic pilot . . . watch that you don't
         make any violent control movements like you did in the
         fighter planes.
Striker : Alright, I'm going to unlock the automatic pilot.
Kramer  : Now just remember the controls will feel very heavy
          compared to a fighter.  Don't worry about that its
          perfectly normal.  ( Plane starts to nosedive and
          passengers begin to panic )  Now one more thing,
          is there somebody there who can work the radio
          and leave you free for flying?
Striker : Yes, the stewardess is here with me.
Kramer  : Good, have her sit in the co-pilot's seat.
Striker : Elaine, he wants you to sit in the co-pilot's seat.
Passengr: What's going on?  We have a right to know the truth!
Rumack  : Alright, I'm going to level with you all.  The most
          important thing now is that you remain calm.  There's
          no reason to panic ( his nose starts to grow ).  Now,
          it is true that one of the crew members is ill,
          slightly ill, but the other two pilots are just fine,
          they're at the controls, flying the plane, free to
          pursue a life of religious fulfillment.
Striker : The radio's all yours now.  And keep an eye on that
          number 3 engine gauge over there, its running a
          little hot ( sign flashes "a little hot" )
Kramer  : Striker, before we start, I'd like to say something.
          I know that right now things must look pretty rough
          up there, but if you do what I tell you, when I tell
          you to do it, there's no reason why you shouldn't
          have complete confidence in your chances to come out
          of this thing alive and in one piece.  Striker, what
          kind of weather are you in up there?
Elaine : Rain!
Striker: And a little ice.
Elaine : And a little ice.
Kramer : How's it handling?
Striker: Sluggish, like a wet sponge.
Elaine : Sluggish, like a wet sponge.
Kramer : Alright, Striker, your doing just fine.
Striker: Its a damn good thing he doesn't know how much I hate
         his guts.
Elaine : Its a damn good thing you don't know how much he
         hates your guts.
Jivemn2: Mnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn, hmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm.
Attndnt: Can I get you something?
Jivemn2: S'mo fo butter layin' to the bone. Jackin' me up.
         Tightly.
Attndnt: I'm sorry I don't understand.
Jivemn1: Cutty say he cant hang.
Woman4 : Oh stewardess, I speak jive.
Attndnt: Ohhhh, good.
Woman4 : He said that he's in great pain and he wants to know
         if you can help him.
Attndnt: Would you tell him to just relax and I'll be back as
         soon as I can with some medicine.
Woman  : Jus' hang loose blooood.  She goonna catch up on the`
         rebound a de medcide.
Jivemn2: What it is big mamma, my mamma didn't raise no dummy, I
         dug her rap.
Woman4 : Cut me som' slac' jak!  Chump don wan no help, chump
         don git no help.  Jive ass dude don got no brains
         anyhow.
MCrosky: Get me Captain Oever's wife on the phone, we'd better
         let her know what's going on.
Towergy: Chief, this weather bulletin just came off the wire.
MCrosky: Johnny, what can you make outta this?
Johnny : This?  Why I could make a hat, or a brooch, a
         pterodactyl. . .
( Phone rings at Captain Oever's wife's house, she answers. )
MSOever: Hello?
Towergy: Mrs. Oever?
MSOever: Yes, this is Mrs. Oever.
Towergy: This is Ed Masias calling from the airport.  There's
         some trouble on your husband's flight.  We don't know
         how serious it is yet, but Steve McCrosky say you may
         want to get down here right away.
MSOever: Yes, I'll be right down. . . ( hangs up the phone )
         I've gotta go to the airport, you can let yourself
         out the back door.  There's juice in the refridger-
         ator.  ( We see she is sleeping with a horse)
Horse  : Nayyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy.... plllllllllllllllllllll.
         Winey.
Elaine : Dr Rumack says the sick people are getting worse and
         we`re running out of time.
Striker: ( In echoey voice to himself ) I've got to concentrate
         oncentrate, oncentrate. I've got to concentrate,
         concentrate, concentrate.  Hello, hello, hello.
         Echo, echo, echo.  Pinch hitting for Pedro Borbau
         Manny Motta, motta, motta.
Man    : How're you doing honey?
Woman5 : I'm so hot, I'm burning up.
Man    : I'll turn on some air. ( The whole cabin starts to blow
         with wind. " Close the window " )
Striker: Chicago, the passengers are beginning to panic, when do
         we start down?
Kramer : Not just yet, but you're in our range any second now.
         I don't understand it should have been in range 10
         minutes ago.  Genderson, check the radar range,
         anything yet?
Gendrsn: ( Looks in an oven ) Its about 2 more minutes chief.
MCrosky: 2 more minutes?  They could be miles off course.
Kramer : That's impossible there on instruments ( a brass
         ensemble begins to play )
MCrosky: This is going to be a real sweat.  Genderson, let me
         know when you get anything.  Got a cigarette Nelson?
         I can't take much more of this.  Looks like I picked
         the wrong week to quit amphetamines.  Johnny, how
         about some more coffee?
Johnny:  NO THANKS!
Towergy: Chief, these reporters won't leave without a statement.
Reportr: How much longer can those passengers hold out?
MCrosky: A, half an hour or less.
Reportr: Who's flying the plane?
MCrosky: One of the passengers.  But, he's an experienced Air
         Force pilot who flew during the war, so there's no
         cause for alarm.  . . Here, take over.
Reportr: What kind of plane is it?
Johnny : Oh its a big pretty white plane with red stripes,
         curtains in the window and wheels.  It looks like
         a big tylenol.
Reportr: Okay boys, lets get some pictures.  ( Take photos off
         of wall . . .)
( Various reports from around the world are shown )
TVGUY  : This bulletin just handed to me . . . stricken airliner
         approaches Chicago.
Countpt: They bought their tickets, they knew what they were
         getting into.  I say let em crash.
Man2   : Would you like a little whiskey ma'am?
Woman6 : ( In a berating voice ) CERTAINLY NOT!  ( She the does
         cocaine )
Striker: How are the passengers doing?
Rumack : I won't deceive you Mr. Striker . . . we're running out
         of time.
Striker: Surely there must be something you can do.
Rumack : I'm doing everything I can and stop calling me Shirley.
Nun    : R-E-S-P-E-C-T find out what it means to me . . . Sock
         it to me, sock it to me, sock it to me . . . A little
         respect ( passenger vomits as she sings ) Just a little
         bit . . .
Attndnt: Booo-hooo ( she crys )
Rumack : Randy, are you alright?
Attndnt: Oh, Dr. Rumack, I'm scared.  I've never been so scared.
         And besides, I'm 26 and I'm not married.
Rumack : We're going to make it, you've got to believe that.
Woman3 : Dr. Rumack, do you have any idea when we'll be landing?
Rumack : Pretty soon, how are you bearing up?
Woman3 : Well, to be honest, I've never been so scared. But, at
         least I have a husband. ( Randy sobs harder )
Voice  : Stay in formation, target's just ahead.  Target should
         be clear if you go in low enough.  You'll have to decide
         You'll have to decide...
Striker: oh rats! we lost number 4.
Elaine : What happened Ted, what went wrong?
Striker: The oil pressure, I forgot to check the oil pressure.
         When Kramer hears about this, the shit's gonna hit
         the fan ( We see shit hitting a fan )
Kramer : Watch that oil temperature, what the hell's he doing up
         there?  Striker, that plane can't land itself, it
         takes a pilot that can handle pressure.
MCrosky: Ease off Rex, he hasn't flown for years, its not his
         fault.  It could happen to any pilot.
Johnny : It happened to Barbara Stanwick.
MCrosky: Don't push him too hard, give him a break.  You gotta
         remember who you're dealing with.
Johnny : Nick, Leaf, Jerrod, there's a fire in the barn.
Striker: He's right, I can't take the pressure.  I was crazy to
         think I could land this plane.
Elaine : Ted, you're the only hope.
Striker: I don't care. ( Plane starts to nosedive again ) I don't
         have what it takes.  They'd be better off with someone
         who'd never flown before.
MCrosky: Bad news, the fog is getting thicker.
Johnny : And Leon's getting laaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaarrrrrrrrrger.
Striker: I know what you're going to say, so save your breath.
Rumack : Well, I don't have anything to say, you've done the
         best you could.  You really have, the best you could.
         You can't expect to win em all.  But, I want to tell
         you something I've kept to myself through these years.
         I was in the war myself, medical corps.  I was on late
         duty one night when they brought in a badly wounded
         pilot from one of the raids.  He could barely talk.
         He looked at me and said " The odds were against
         us up there, but we went in anyway, I'm glad Captain
         made the right decision.  The pilot's name was George
         Zip.
Striker: George Zip said that?
Rumack : The last thing he said to me, doc, he said, "Sometime
         when the crew is up against it, the breaks are beating
         the boys, tell them to get out there and give it all
         they got and win just one for the Zipper.  I don't
         know where I'll be then doc, he said, but I won't smell
         too good, that's for sure.
Striker: Excuse me doc, I got a plane to land.
Kramer : Alright Striker, you'd better stay up there for a bit,
         as soon as the fog lifts, we'll bring you in.
Striker: I'll take it Elaine.  Listen to me Kramer, Dr. Rumack
         says the sick people are in critical condition. And
         every minute counts. We've got to land now.
Kramer : Don't be a fool Striker, you know what a landing like
         this means, you more than anybody.  I'm ordering you
         to stay up there.
Striker:  NO DICE CHICAGO.  I'm giving the orders and we're
          coming in.  I guess the foot's on the other hand now,
        isn't it Kramer?
Kramer : He'll never make it in this soup, not one chance in a
         million.
MCrosky: I know, I know,  but its his ship now, his command, he's
         in charge, he's the boss, head man, top dog, big cheese,
Towergy: Captain, look at this!
MCrosky: Passengers certain to die!
Kramer : Airline negligent.
Johnny : There's a sale at Penny's!
MCrosky: Alright, I'll need 3 men up in the tower.  You Newbower,
         you Maceias. . .
Johnny : Me John!  Big tree.
Kramer : Standby, Striker.  We're going to the tower, good luck.
Johnny : The tower, the tower . . . Repunzle, Repunzle . . .
Woman4 : Stewardess, how soon so we land?
Attndnt: It won't be long now, try not to worry.
Towergy: We're all ready sir, this is Captain McCrosky, Captain
         Roberts, Captain Kramer, Captain Kolosomo,  Captain
         Henshaw this is Captain Gatz,  Captain Kramer, Captain
         Gatz, Captain Henshaw, Captain Roberts.
MCrosky: Alright Kolosomo, you work the relay, Roberts, check all
         air traffic within five miles,  get that finger out of
         your ear, you don't know where that finger's been ( guy
         smells his finger ) Got a cigarette Nels?  Your husband
         and the others are alive, but unconscious.
Johnny : Just like Gerald Ford.
MCrosky: Now, there's a chance we can save them, if Striker can
         get that plane down in time.
MSOever: That isn't much of a chance, is it?
MCrosky: I don't know, I don't know, but we're doing everything
         we can, now excuse me huh?
Johnny : Where did you get that dress? Its aweful . . . and
         those shoes, and that coat, geeeeeeeeeeeeeezzzzzzzz.
( Tower Guys Playing Atari basketball on radar screen )
Towergy: 8 miles.  Looks like their heading 0-4-4.
Elaine : We are now at 2000 feet beginning our decent.
Kramer : Steve, I want every light you can get poured onto
         that field. ( A dump truck dumps table lamps onto the
         runway )
Towergy: Tower to all emergency vehicles, runway is 9er.
         Airport vehicles take stations 1 and 2.  Civilian
         equipment number 3.  Air Force positions number 4
         and 5.  All ambulances go to number 3.  Air
         Israel, please clear the runway ( Plane is shown
         wearing a beard, hat, tallis, and yarmulke. )
Attendnt:In a moment, we'll ask you to assume crash positions.
        your life jackets are located under your seat.  Place
        the jacket over your head.  And when I give the word,
        pull the cord on the right side flap.  Your seat
        cushions are also equipped with a flotation device.
Radio : WZAZ in Chicago, where disco lives forever ( plane
        knocks down station's transmitter )

Kramer : Watch your altitude Striker, you're too erratic.  You
         can't come straight in.  You've got enough fuel left
         for two hours of flying.
Striker: I'll take it Elaine.  Listen to me Kramer!  We have
         people up here who will die in less than an hour
         let alone two.  I may bend your precious airplane,
         but I'll get it down.  I'm putting the landing gear
         down now.
Attndnt: Mr. Striker, the passengers are ready.
Striker: Thank you Randy.  You'd better leave sweetheart.  You
         might get hurt up here.
Elaine : Ted,
Striker: Yes?
Elaine : I wanted you to know, now . . . I'm very proud.
Striker: Tell 'em the gear is down and we're ready to land.
Elaine : The gear is down and we're ready to land.
Kramer : Alright, he's on final now, put out all runway lights
         except 9er.
Towergy: Captain, maybe we ought to turn on the search lights
         now.
MCrosky: No, thats just what they'll be expecting us to do.
Rumack : I just want to tell you both good luck, we're all
         counting on you.
Kramer : Alright, now just listen carefully . . . you should
         be able to see the runway at 300 feet.  Aim the
         touchdown a third of the way along.  There's a slight
         crosswind from the right so be ready for it.  Land
         too fast, use your emergency breaks.  The red handle's
         right in front of you.  If that doesn't stop you . . .
         ( long pause ) . . . if that doesn't stop you cut the
         four ignition switches over the co-pilot's head.
         Do you see us now?  You should be able to see the field
         now.  ( Dog barks )
MCrosky: It sure is quiet out there. . .
Kramer : Yeah, too quiet.
MCrosky: Looks like I picked the wrong week to quit sniffing
         glue. ( inhales some glue and falls over)
Striker: There it is.
Kramer : There he is.  Striker, you're coming in too fast . . .
Striker: I know, I know.
Elaine : He knows, he knows.
Airdude: Getting below 700 now, still going down. 675, 650, 625,
         he's holding. . .no, no he's down, he's down.
Kramer : Sound your alarm bell, now.
Attndnt: Alright now everybody, get in crash positions ( The
         passengers arrange themselves as if they just crash-
         ed. )
Kramer : Put down 30 degrees of flap.  Striker now listen to me
         Remember your breaks and switches, get ready to  fly it
         out . . .
Airdude: He's all over the place, 900 feet, up to 1300 feet . . .
         what an asshole.
Kramer : More mast rudder, put down more flap . . .
Johnny : ( Unplugs runway lights ) Just kidding.
Kramer : Striker, lift your nose, straighten your wings.  You're
         coming in too fast, watch your speed.
MCrosky: He's coming right at us . . . ( jumps through a window )
Kramer : You're coming in too hot.  Ease up on the throttle.
         Watch for that crosswind.  Aim for the numbers, you'll
         have to dip your left wing.  You're drifting, keep your
         eyes on the far end of the runway.  You're too low
         damnit!  Watch your stall speed.  Ease her down, down.
         The break . . . pull the red handle.
Rumack : I just want to tell you both good luck, we're all
         counting on you.
Voice2 : Flight 2-0-9 now arriving gate 8- gate 9, gate 10
Kramer : Push a button.
Voice2 : Gate 13, gate 14, gate 15 . . .
Johnny : Auntie Em, Uncle Henry, toto . . . its a twister,
         its a twister
Voice  : Gate 23, 24, 25 . . .
( Plane lands safely )
Rumack : I just want to tell you both-- good luck, we're all
         counting on you.
Kramer : Striker, Striker, you alright?
Striker: Yeah, we're okay.
Kramer : Ted that was probably the worst landing in the history
         of this airport, but some of us here, particularly me
         would like to buy you a drink and shake your hand . .
         and Ted I just want you to know that when the going
         got rough . . .
Attndnt: Okay alright, have a nice day . . .have a nice day,
         thank you for flying TransAmerican
Kramer : Lonliness, thats the bottom line.  I was never happy
         as a child . . . Christmas Ted, what does that mean
         to you?  It was living hell.  Do you know what its
         like falling in the mud and getting kicked, in the head.
         With an iron boot? Of course you don't, no one does,
         that never happens.  Sorry Ted, that's a dumb question.
Attndnt: Have a nice day.
Kramer : Municipal bonds Ted, I'm talking double A rating. . .
         the best investment in America.
( Ted and Elaine go off into the sunset and Otto and his
inflatable friend Ottoette fly the plane off )

		 Monty Python's Life of Brian

Brian ... the babe they called Brian
Grew ... grew grew and grew, grew up to be
A boy called Brian
A boy called Brian

He had arms and legs and hands and feet
This boy whose name was Brian
And he grew, grew, grew and grew
Grew up to be
Yes he grew up to be
A teenager called Brian
A teenager called Brian
And his face became spotty
Yes his face became spotty
And his voice dropped down low
And things started to grow
On young Brian and show
He was certainly no
No girl named Brian
Not a girl named Brian

And he started to shave
And have one off the wrist
And want to see girls
And go out and get pissed
This man called Brian
This man called Brian

Three camels are silhouetted against the bright stars of the
moonless sky, moving slowly along the horizon.  A star leads
them towards Bethlehem.  The Wise Men enter the gates of the
sleeping town and make their way through the deserted streets.
A dog snarls at them.  They approach a stable, out of which
streams a beam of light.  They dismount and enter to find a
typical manger scene, with a baby in a rough crib of straw and
patient animals standing around.  The mother nods by the side
of the child.  Suddenly she wakes from her lightish doze, sees
them, shrieks and falls backwards off her straw.  She's up
again in a flash, looking guardedly at them.  She is a ratbag.

Mandy:        Who are you?
Wise Man 1:   We are three wise men.
Wise Man 2:   We are astrologers.  We have come from the East.
Mandy:        Is this some kind of joke?
Wise Man 1:   We wish to praise the infant.
Wise Man 2:   We must pay homage to him.
Mandy:        Homage!!  You're all drunk you are.  It's disgusting.
	      Out, out!
Wise Man 3:   No, no.
Mandy:        Coming bursting in here first thing in the morning
	      with some tale about Oriental fortune tellers...
	      get out!
Wise Man 1:   No.  No we must see him.
Mandy:        Go and praise someone else's brat, go on.
Wise Man 2:   We were led by a star.
Mandy:        Led by a bottle, more like.  Get out!
Wise Man 2:   We must see him.  We have brought presents.
Mandy:        Out!
Wise Man 1:   Gold, frankincense, myrrh.

(her attitude changes immediately)

Mandy:        Well, why didn't you say so?  He's over here...Sorry
	      this place is a bit of a mess.  What is myrrh, anyway?
Wise Man 3:   It is a valuable balm.
Mandy:        A balm, what are you giving him a balm for?  It might
	      bite him.
Wise Man 3:   What?
Mandy:        It's a dangerous animal.  Quick, throw it in the trough.
Wise Man 3:   No it isn't.
Mandy:        Yes it is.
Wise Man 3:   No, no, it is an ointment.
Mandy:        An ointment?
Wise Man 3:   Look.
Mandy:        (sampling the ointment with a grubby finger)
	      Oh. There is an animal called a balm or did I dream it?
	      You astrologers, eh?  Well, what's he then?
Wise Man 2:   H'm?
Mandy:        What star sign is he?
Wise Man 2:   Capricorn.
Mandy:        Capricorn, eh, what are they like?
Wise Man 2:   He is the son of God, our Messiah.
Wise Man 1:   King of the Jews.
Mandy:        And that's Capricorn, is it?
Wise Man 3:   No, no, that's just him.
Mandy:        Oh, I was going to say, otherwise there'd be a lot of
	      them.

(The Wise Men are on their knees)

Wise Man 2:   By what name are you calling him?

(Dramatic Holy music)

Mandy:        Brian.
Three Wise Men:
	      We worship you, Oh, Brian, who are Lord over
	      us all.  Praise unto you, Brian and to the
	      Lord our Father.  Amen.
Mandy:        Do you do a lot of this, then?
Wise Man 1:   What?
Mandy:        This praising.
Wise Man 1:   No, no, no.
Mandy:        Oh!  Well, if you're dropping by again do pop in. (they
	      take the hint and rise)  And thanks a lot for the gold
	      and frankincense but...don't worry too much about the
	      myrrh next time.  Thank you...Goodbye.  (to Brian)
	      Well, weren't they nice...out of their bloody minds,
	      but still...

In the background we see the Wise Men pause outside another door
as a gentle glow suffuses them.  They look at each other, confer
and then stride back in and grab the presents from Mandy and turn
to go again, pushing Mandy over.

Mandy:        Here, here, that's mine, you just gave me that. Ow!

The Leper Scene

(As MANDY and BRIAN pass through the city gate, they attract a sort of
 muscular, fit and healthy young BEGGAR, who pursues them relentlessly through
 the busy streets.)
	EX-LEPER
     Spare a talent for an old ex-leper, sir.
	MANDY
(to EX-LEPER)
     Buzz off!
	EX-LEPER
(The EX-LEPER has come round to BRIAN's side.)
     Spare a talent for an old ex-leper, sir.
	BRIAN
     Did you say -- ex-leper?
	EX-LEPER
     That's right, sir.  (he salutes)  ... sixteen years behind the bell, and
     proud of it, thank you sir.
	BRIAN
     What happened?
	EX-LEPER
     I was cured, sir.
	BRIAN
     Cured?
	EX-LEPER
     Yes sir, a bloody miracle, sir.  Bless you.
	BRIAN
     Who cured you?
	EX-LEPER
     Jesus did.  I was hopping along, when suddenly he comes and cures me.
     One minute I'm a leper with a trade, next moment me livelihood's gone.
     Not so much as a by your leave.
(gestures in the manner of a conjuror)
     You're cured mate, sod you.
	MANDY
     Go away.
	EX-LEPER
     Look.  I'm not saying that being a leper was a bowl of cherries.  But it
     was a living.  I mean, you try waving muscular suntanned limbs in people's
     faces demanding compassion.  It's a bloody disaster.
	MANDY
     You could go and get yourself a decent job, couldn't you?
	EX-LEPER
     Look, sir, my family has been in begging six generations.  I'm not about
     to become a goat-herd, just because some long-haired conjuror starts
     mucking about. (makes gesture again)
     Just like that.  "You're cured."  Bloody do-gooder!
	BRIAN
     Well, why don't you go and tell him you want to be a leper again?
	EX-LEPER
     Ah yeah, I could do that, sir yes, I suppose I could.  What I was going
     to do was ask him if he could ... you know, just make me a bit lame in one
     leg during the week, you know, something beggable, but not leprosy, which
     is a pain in the arse to be quite blunt, sir, excuse my French but ...
(They have reached BRIAN and MANDY's house.  MANDY goes in.  BRIAN gives the
 BEGGAR a coin.)
	BRIAN
     There you are.
	EX-LEPER
     Thank you sir ... half a denary for my bloody life story!
	BRIAN
     There's no pleasing some people
	EX-LEPER
     That's just what Jesus said.

The Inalienable Rights Scene

(A huge Roman amphitheatre sparsely attended.  REG, FRANCIS, STAN and JUDITH
 are seated in the stands.  They speak conspiratorially.)

	JUDITH
     ... Any Anti-Imperialist group like ours must *reflect* such a divergence
     of interests within its power-base.
	REG
     Agreed.
(General nodding.)
     Francis?
	FRANCIS
     I think Judith's point of view is valid here, Reg, provided the Movement
     never forgets that it is the inalienable right of every man ...
	STAN
     Or woman.
	FRANCIS
     Or woman ... to rid himself ...
	STAN
     Or herself.
	REG
     Or herself.  Agreed.  Thank you, brother.
	STAN
     Or sister.
	FRANCIS
     Thank you, brother.  Or sister.  Where was I?
	REG
     I thought you'd finished.
	FRANCIS
     Oh, did I?  Right.
	REG
     Furthermore, it is the birthright of every man ...
	STAN
     Or woman.
	REG
     Why don't you shut up about women, Stan, you're putting us off.
	STAN
     Women have a perfect right to play a part in our movement, Reg.
	FRANCIS
     Why are you always on about women, Stan?
	STAN
     ... I want to be one.
	REG
     ... What?
	STAN
     I want to be a woman.  From now on I want you all to call me Loretta.
	REG
     What!?
	STAN
     It's my right as a man.
	JUDITH
     Why do you want to be Loretta, Stan?
	STAN
     I want to have babies.
	REG
     You want to have babies?!?!?!
	STAN
     It's every man's right to have babies if he wants them.
	REG
     But you can't have babies.
	STAN
     Don't you oppress me.
	REG
     I'm not oppressing you, Stan -- you haven't got a womb.  Where's the
     fetus going to gestate?  You going to keep it in a box?
(STAN starts crying.)
	JUDITH
     Here!  I've got an idea.  Suppose you agree that he can't actually have
     babies, not having a womb, which is nobody's fault, not even the Romans',
     but that he can have the *right* to have babies.
	FRANCIS
     Good idea, Judith.  We shall fight the oppressors for your right to have
     babies, brother.  Sister, sorry.
	REG
     What's the point?
	FRANCIS
     What?
	REG
     What's the point of fighting for his right to have babies, when he can't
     have babies?
	FRANCIS
     It is symbolic of our struggle against oppression.
	REG
     It's symbolic of his struggle against reality.


The Front's Demands Scene

(The interior of MATTHIAS'S HOUSE.  A cellar-like room with a very
 conspiratorial atmosphere.  REG and STAN are seated at a table at one end of
 the room.  FRANCIS, dressed in commando gear -- black robes and a red sash
 around his head -- is standing by a plan on the wall.  He is addressing an
 audience of about eight MASKED COMMANDOS.  Their faces are partially hidden.)

	FRANCIS
     We get in through the underground heating system here ... up through to
     the main audience chamber here ... and Pilate's wife's bedroom is here.
     Having grabbed his wife, we inform Pilate that she is in our custody and
     forthwith issue our demands.  Any questions?
	COMMANDO XERXES
     What exactly are the demands?
	REG
     We're giving Pilate two days to dismantle the entire apparatus of the
     Roman Imperialist State and if he doesn't agree immediately we execute her.

	MATTHIAS
     Cut her head of?
	FRANCIS
     Cut all her bits off, send 'em back every hour on the hour ... show him
     we're not to be trifled with.
	REG
     Also, we're demanding a ten foot mahogany statue of the Emperor Julius
     Caesar with his cock hanging out.
	STAN
     What?  They'll never agree to that, Reg.
	REG
     That's just a bargaining counter.  And of course, we point out that they
     bear full responsibility when we chop her up, AND ... that we shall NOT
     submit to blackmail.
	ALL
     (Applause) No blackmail!!!!
	REG
     They've bled us white, the bastards.  They've taken everything we had,
     not just from us, from our fathers and from our fathers' fathers.
	STAN
     And from our fathers' fathers' fathers.
	REG
     Yes.
	STAN
     And from our fathers' fathers' fathers' fathers.
	REG
     All right, Stan.  Don't labour the point.  And what have they ever given
     us IN RETURN?  (he pauses smugly)
	XERXES
     The aqueduct?
	REG
     What?
	XERXES
     The aqueduct.
	REG
     Oh yeah, yeah they gave us that.  Yeah.  That's true.
	MASKED COMMANDO
     And the sanitation!
	STAN
     Oh yes ... sanitation, Reg, you remember what the city used to be like.
	REG
     All right, I'll grant you that the aqueduct and the sanitation are two
     things that the Romans HAVE done ...
	MATTHIAS
     And the roads ...
	REG
     (sharply) Well YES OBVIOUSLY the roads ... the roads go without saying.
     But apart from the aqueduct, the sanitation and the roads ...
	ANOTHER MASKED COMMANDO
     Irrigation ...
	OTHER MASKED VOICES
     Medicine ... Education ... Health
	REG
     Yes ... all right, fair enough ...
	COMMANDO NEARER THE FRONT
     And the wine ...
	GENERAL
     Oh yes!  True!
	FRANCIS
     Yeah.  That's something we'd really miss if the Romans left, Reg.
	MASKED COMMANDO AT BACK
     Public baths!
	STAN
     AND it's safe to walk in the streets at night now.
	FRANCIS
     Yes, they certainly know how to keep order ...
     (general nodding)
     ... let's face it, they're the only ones who could in a place like this.
     (more general murmurs of agreement)
	REG
     All right ... all right ... but apart from better sanitation and medicine
     and education and irrigation and public health and roads and a freshwater
     system and baths and public order ... what HAVE the Romans done for US?
	XERXES
     Brought peace!
	REG
     (very angry, he's not having a good meeting at all)
     What!?  Oh ... (scornfully) Peace, yes ... shut up!

Latin Lesson

Brian is writing a slogan to a wall, oblivious to the Roman patrol approaching
from behind. The slogan is "ROMANES EUNT DOMUS".

C: What's this thing?
   "ROMANES EUNT DOMUS"?
   "People called Romanes they go the house"?
B: It, it says "Romans go home".
C: No it doesn't. What's Latin for "Roman"?
B: (hesitates)
C: Come on, come on!
B: (uncertain) "ROMANUS".
C: Goes like?
B: "-ANUS".
C: Vocative plural of "-ANUS" is?
B: "-ANI".
C: (takes paintbrush from Brian and paints over) "RO-MA-NI".
   "EUNT"? What is "EUNT"?
B: "Go".
C: Conjugate the verb "to go"!
B: "IRE". "EO", "IS", "IT", "IMUS", "ITIS", "EUNT".
C: So "EUNT" is ...?
B: Third person plural present indicative, "they go".
C: But "Romans, go home!" is an order, so you must use the ...?
   (lifts Brian by his hairs)
B: The ... imperative.
C: Which is?
B: Ahm, oh, oh, "I", "I"!
C: How many romans? (pulls harder)
B: Plural, plural! "ITE".
C: (strikes over "EUNT" and paints "ITE" to the wall)
   (satisfied) "I-TE".
   "DOMUS"? Nominative? "Go home", this is motion towards, isn't it, boy?
B: (very anxious) Dative?
C: (draws his sword and holds it to Brian's throat)
B: Ahh! No, ablative, ablative, sir. No, the, accusative, accusative,
   ah, DOMUM, sir.
C: Except that "DOMUS" takes the ...?
B: ... the locative, sir!
C: Which is?
B: "DOMUM".
C: (satisfied) "DOMUM" (strikes out "DOMUS" and writes "DOMUM") "-MUM".
   Understand?
B: Yes sir.
C: Now write it down a hundred times.
B: Yes sir, thank you sir, hail Caesar, sir.
C: (salutes) Hail Caesar.
   If it's not done by sunrise, I'll cut your balls off.
B: (very reliefed) Oh thank you sir, thank you sir, hail Caesar and
   everything, sir!

The Brian in Jail Scene

(BRIAN wakes up with a smile on his face to find himself being dragged along a
 cell corridor by TWO GUARDS.  The horrible figure of the JAILER spits at him
 and flings him into a dark damp cell, slamming the iron grate behind him and
 turning the key hollowly in the lock.  BRIAN slumps to the floor.  A voice
 comes out of the darkness behind him.)
	BEN
     You LUCKY bastard!
	BRIAN
     (spins around and peers into the gloom)
     Who's that?
	BEN
(In the darkness BRIAN just makes out an emaciated figure, suspended on the
 wall, with his feet off the ground, by chains round his wrists.  This is BEN.)
     You lucky, lucky bastard.
	BRIAN
     What?
	BEN
     (with great bitterness) Proper little gaoler's pet, aren't we?
	BRIAN
     (ruffled) What do you mean?
	BEN
     You must have slipped him a few shekels, eh?
	BRIAN
     Slipped him a few shekels!?  You saw him spit in my face!
	BEN
     Ohh!  What wouldn't I give to be spat at in the face!  I sometimes hang
     awake at nights dreaming of being spat in the face.
	BRIAN
     Well, it's not exactly friendly, is it?  They had me in manacles ...
	BEN
     Manacles!  Oooh.
     (his eyes go quite dreamy)
     My idea of heaven is to be allowed to be put in manacles ... just for a
     few hours.  They must think the sun shines out of your arse, sonny!
	BRIAN
     Listen!  They beat me up before they threw me in here.
	BEN
     Oh yeah?  The only day they don't beat me up is on my birthday.
	BRIAN
     Oh shut up.
	BEN
     Well, your type makes me sick!  You come in here, you get treated like
     Royalty, and everyone outside thinks you're a bloody martyr.
	BRIAN
     Oh, lay off me ... I've had a hard time!
	BEN
     YOU'VE had a hard time!  Listen, sonny!  I've been here five years and
     they only hung me the right way up yesterday!
	BRIAN
     All right!  All right!
	BEN
     I just wish I had half your luck.  They must think you're Lord God
     Almighty!
	BRIAN
     What'll they do to me?
	BEN
     Oh, you'll probably get away with crucifixion.
	BRIAN
     Crucifixion!
	BEN
     Yeah, first offence.
	BRIAN
     Get away with crucifixion!
	BEN
     Best thing the Romans ever did for us.
	BRIAN
     (incredulous)  What?
	BEN
     Oh yeah.  If we didn't have crucifixion this country would be in a right
     bloody mess I tell you.
	BRIAN
     (who can stand it no longer)  Guard!
	BEN
     Nail 'em up I say!
	BRIAN
     (dragging himself over to the door)  Guard!
	BEN
     Nail some sense into them!
	GUARD
     (looking through the bars)  What do you want?
	BRIAN
     I want to be moved to another cell.
     (GUARD spits in his face.)
	BRIAN
     Oh!  (he recoils in helpless disgust)
	BEN
     Oh ... look at that!  Bloody favouritism!
	GUARD
     Shut up, you!
	BEN
     Sorry!  Sorry!
     (he lowers his voice)
     Now take my case.  I've been here five years, and every night they take
     me down for ten minutes, then they hang me up again ... which I regard as
     very fair ... in view of what I done ... and if nothing else, it's taught
     me to respect the Romans, and it's taught me that you'll never get
     anywhere in life unless you're prepared to do a fair day's work for a fair
     day's pay ...
	BRIAN
     Oh ... Shut up!
	CENTURION
     Pilate wants to see you.
	BRIAN
     Me?
	CENTURION
     Come on.
	BRIAN
     Pilate?  What does he want to see me for?
	CENTURION
     I think he wants to know which way up you want to be crucified.
(He laughs.  The TWO SOLDIERS smirk.  BEN laughs uproariously.)
	BEN
     ... Nice one, centurion.  Like it, like it.
	CENTURION
     (to BEN)  Shut up!  (BRIAN is hustled out.  The door slams.)
	BEN
     Terrific race the Romans ... terrific.

The Pilate's Chamber Scene

(BRIAN is hauled into PILATE'S audience chamber.  It is big and impressive,
 although a certain amount of redecorating is underway.  The CENTURION salutes.)

	CENTURION
     Hail Caesar.
	PILATE
     Hail Caesar.
	CENTURION
     Only one survivor, sir.
	PILATE
     Thwow him to the floor.
	CENTURION
     What sir?
	PILATE
     Thwow him to the floor.
	CENTURION
     Ah!
(He indicates to the two roman GUARDS who throw BRIAN to the ground.)
	PILATE
     Now, what is your name, Jew?
	BRIAN
     Brian.
	PILATE
     Bwian, eh?
	BRIAN  (trying to be helpful)
     No, *BRIAN*.
(The CENTURION cuffs him.)
	PILATE
     The little wascal has spiwit.
	CENTURION
     Has what, sir?
	PILATE
     *SPIWIT*.
	CENTURION
     Yes, he did, sir.
	PILATE
     No, no, spiwit ... bwavado ... a touch of dewwing-do.
	CENTURION  (still not really understanding)
     Ah.  About eleven, sir.
	PILATE  (to BRIAN)
     So you dare to waid us.
	BRIAN  (rising to his feet)
     To what?
	PILATE
     Stwike him, centuwion, vewwy woughly.
	CENTURION
     And throw him to the floor, sir?
	PILATE
     What?
	CENTURION
     THWOW him to the floor again, sir?
	PILATE
     Oh yes.  Thwow him to the floor.
(The CENTURION knocks BRIAN hard on the side of the head again and the TWO
 GUARDS throw him to the floor.)
	PILATE
     Now, Jewish wapscallion.
	BRIAN
     I'm not Jewish ... I'm a Roman!
	PILATE
     *WOMAN*?
	BRIAN
     No, *ROMAN*.
(But he's not quick enough to avoid another blow from the CENTURION.)
	PILATE
     So, your father was a *WOMAN*.  Who was he?
	BRIAN  (proudly)
     He was a centurion in the Jerusalem Garrison.
	PILATE
     Oh.  What was his name?
	BRIAN
     Nortius Maximus.
(An involuntary titter arises from the CENTURION.)
	PILATE
     Centuwion, do we have anyone of that name in the gawwison?
	CENTURION
     Well ... no sir.
	PILATE
     You sound vewwy sure ... have you checked?
	CENTURION
     Well ... no sir ... I think it's a joke, sir ... like ... Sillius Soddus
     or ... Biggus Dickus.
	PILATE
     What's so funny about Biggus Dickus?
	CENTURION
     Well ... it's a ... joke name, sir.
	PILATE
     I have a vewwy gweat fwend in Wome called Biggus Dickus.
(Involuntary laughter from a nearby GUARD surprises PILATE.)
	PILATE
     Silence!  What is all this insolence?  You will find yourself in
     gladiator school vewwy quickly with wotten behaviour like that.
(The GUARD tries to stop giggling.  PILATE turns away from him.  He is angry.)
	BRIAN
     Can I go now sir ...
(The CENTURION strikes him.)
	PILATE
     Wait till Biggus hears of this!
(The GUARD immediately breaks up again.  PILATE turns on him.)
	PILATE
     Wight!  Centuwion ... take him away.
	CENTURION
     Oh sir, he only ...
	PILATE
     I want him fighting wabid wild animals within a week.
	CENTURION
     Yes, sir.
(He starts to drag out the wretched GUARD.  BRIAN notices that little
 attention is being paid to him.)
	PILATE
     I will not have my fwends widiculed by the common soldiewy.
(He walks slowly towards the other GUARDS.)
	PILATE
     Now ... anyone else feel like a little giggle when I mention my fwend ...
(He goes right up to one of the GUARDS.)
     Biggus ... Dickus.  He has a wife you know.
(The GUARDS tense up.)
     Called Incontinentia.
(The GUARDS relax.)
     Incontinentia Buttocks!
(The GUARDS fall about laughing.  BRIAN takes advantage of the chaos to slip
 away.)
	PILATE
     Silence!  I've had enough of this wowdy wabble webel behaviour.  Stop it!
     Call yourselves Pwaetonian guards.  Silence!
(But the GUARDS are all hysterical by now.  PILATE notices BRIAN escaping.)
	PILATE
     You cwowd of cwacking-up cweeps.  Seize him!  Blow your noses and seize
     him!  Oh my bum.

The Market Haggling Scene

(After BRIAN has escaped the CENTURIONS, he runs off towards the crowded
 market square.  At one end of the market there is a speakers' corner, with
 many strangely bearded and oddly dressed PROPHETS attempting to attract an
 audience.  The noisiest or the most controversial are clearly doing best at
 attracting PASSERS-BY.  A STRANGE FIGURE with a rasta hairstyle, covered in
 mud, and with two severed hands on a pole waves wildly at the audience.)
	BLOOD & THUNDER PROPHET
     ... and shall ride forth on a serpents' back, and the eyes shall be red
     with the blood of living creatures, and the whore of Babylon shall rise
     over the hill of excitement and throughout the land there will be a great
     rubbing of parts ...
(Beside him, another PROPHET with red hair, none the less fierce, is trying to
 attract some of the BLOOD & THUNDER PROPHET'S audience.)
	FALSE PROPHET
     And he shall bear a nine-bladed sword.  Nine-bladed.  Not two.  Or five
     or seven, but nine, which he shall wield on all wretched sinners and that
     includes you sir, and the horns shall be on the head ...
(In front of each PROPHET is a ROMAN GUARD, clearly bored but there to break
 up any trouble.  BRIAN races into the market place.  A cohort of ROMANS are
 searching the square roughly turning over baskets and shaking down PASSERS-BY.
 BRIAN appears near a rather dull little PROPHET, who is standing underneath
 the high window that backs out of MATTHIAS' house, the revolutionary HQ.
	BORING PROPHET
     And there shall in that time be rumours of things going astray, and there
     will be a great confusion as to where things really are, and nobody will
     really know where lieth those little things with the sort of raffia work
     base, that has an attachment they will not be there.
(Across the square the ROMANS appear, searching.  BRIAN spots HARRY, the beard
 salesman and moves towards his stall, an idea forming in his mind.)
(The BORING PROPHET drones on and on.)
	BORING PROPHET
     At this time a friend shall lose his friends's hammer and the young shall
     not know where lieth the things possessed by their fathers that their
     fathers put there only just the night before ...
(BRIAN runs up to HARRY the beard seller's stall and hurriedly grabs an
 artificial beard.)
	BRIAN
     How much?  Quick!
	HARRY
     What?
	BRIAN
     It's for the wife.
	HARRY
     Oh.  Twenty shekels.
	BRIAN
     Right.
	HARRY
     What?
	BRIAN
     (as he puts down 20 shekels)  There you are.
	HARRY
     Wait a moment.
	BRIAN
     What?
	HARRY
     We're supposed to haggle.
	BRIAN
     No, no, I've got to ...
	HARRY
     What do you mean, no?
	BRIAN
     I haven't time, I've got to get ...
	HARRY
     Give it back then.
	BRIAN
     No, no, I paid you.
	HARRY
     Burt!  (BURT appears.  He is very big.)
	BURT
     Yeah!
	HARRY
     This bloke won't haggle.
	BURT
     (looking around)  Where are the guards?
	BRIAN
     Oh, all right ... I mean do we have to ...
	HARRY
     Now I want twenty for that ...
	BRIAN
     I gave you twenty.
	HARRY
     Now are you telling me that's not worth twenty shekels?
	BRIAN
     No.
	HARRY
     Feel the quality, that's none of yer goat.
	BRIAN
     Oh ... I'll give you nineteen then.
	HARRY
     No, no.  Do it properly.
	BRIAN
     What?
	HARRY
     Haggle properly.  This isn't worth nineteen.
	BRIAN
     You just said it was worth twenty.
	HARRY
     Burt!!
	BRIAN
     I'll give you ten.
	HARRY
     That's more like it.  (outraged)  Ten!?  Are you trying to insult me?
     Me?  With a poor dying grandmother ... Ten!?!
	BRIAN
     Eleven.
	HARRY
     Now you're getting it.  Eleven!?!  Did I hear you right?  Eleven?  This
     cost me twelve.  You want to ruin me.
	BRIAN
     Seventeen.
	HARRY
     Seventeen!
	BRIAN
     Eighteen?
	HARRY
     No, no, no.  You go to fourteen now.
	BRIAN
     Fourteen.
	HARRY
     Fourteen, are you joking?
	BRIAN
     That's what you told me to say.
(HARRY registers total despair.)
     Tell me what to say.  Please.
	HARRY
     Offer me fourteen.
	BRIAN
     I'll give you fourteen.
	HARRY
     (to onlookers)  He's offering me fourteen for this!
	BRIAN
     Fifteen.
	HARRY
     Seventeen.  My last word.  I won't take a penny less, or strike me dead.
	BRIAN
     Sixteen.
	HARRY
     Done.  (He grasps BRIAN'S hand and shakes it.)  Nice to do business with
     you.  Tell you what, I'll throw in this as well.  (He gives BRIAN a gourd.)

	BRIAN
     I don't want it but thanks.
	HARRY
     Burt!
	BURT
     (appearing rapidly)  Yes?
	BRIAN
     All right!  All right!!  Thank you.
	HARRY
     Where's the sixteen then?
	BRIAN
     I already gave you twenty.
	HARRY
     Oh yes ... that's four I owe you then.  (starts looking for change)
	BRIAN
     ... It's all right, it doesn't matter.
	HARRY
     Hang on.
(Pause as HARRY can't find change.  BRIAN sees a pair of prowling ROMANS.)
	BRIAN
     It's all right, that's four for the gourd -- that's fine!
	HARRY
     Four for the gourd.  Four!!!!  Look at it, that's worth ten if it's worth
     a shekel.
	BRIAN
     You just gave it to me for nothing.
	HARRY
     Yes, but it's *worth* ten.
	BRIAN
     All right, all right.
	HARRY
     No, no, no.  It's not worth ten.  You're supposed to argue.  "What?  Ten
     for that, you must be mad!"
(BRIAN pays ten, runs off with the gourd, and fixes the beard on his face.)
     Ah, well there's one born every minute.

Always Look on the Bright Side of Life

Cheer up, Brian.  You know what they say.
Some things in life are bad,
They can really make you mad.
Other things just make you swear and curse.
When you're chewing on life's gristle,
Don't grumble, give a whistle!
And this'll help things turn out for the best...
And...

(the music fades into the song)

..always look on the bright side of life!
(whistle)

Always look on the bright side of life...
If life seems jolly rotten,
There's something you've forgotten!
And that's to laugh and smile and dance and sing,

When you're feeling in the dumps,
Don't be silly chumps,
Just purse your lips and whistle -- that's the thing!
And... always look on the bright side of life...

(whistle)
Come on!

(other start to join in)
Always look on the bright side of life...
(whistle)

For life is quite absurd,
And death's the final word.
You must always face the curtain with a bow!
Forget about your sin -- give the audience a grin,
Enjoy it -- it's the last chance anyhow!

So always look on the bright side of death!
Just before you draw your terminal breath.
Life's a piece of shit,
When you look at it.

Life's a laugh and death's a joke, it's true,
You'll see it's all a show,
Keep 'em laughing as you go.
Just remember that the last laugh is on you!

And always look on the bright side of life...
(whistle)
Always look on the bright side of life
(whistle)

Monty Python and the Holy Grail

  Scene 1
     [wind]
     [clop clop]
 ARTHUR:  Whoa there!
     [clop clop]

 GUARD #1:  Halt!  Who goes there?

 ARTHUR:  It is I, Arthur, son of Uther Pendragon, from the castle

of Camelot.  King of the Britons, defeator of the Saxons,

sovereign of all England!
 GUARD #1:  Pull the other one!
 ARTHUR:  I am.  And this my trusty servant Patsy.     We have
ridden the length and breadth of the land in search of knights

who will join me in my court of Camelot.  I must speak with your
lord     and master.
 GUARD #1:  What, ridden on a horse?
 ARTHUR:  Yes!
 GUARD #1:  You're using coconuts!
 ARTHUR:  What?
 GUARD #1:  You've got two empty halves of coconut and you're
bangin' 'em together.
 ARTHUR:  So?  We have ridden since the snows of winter covered
this land, through the kingdom of Mercea, through--
 GUARD #1:  Where'd you get the coconut?
 ARTHUR:  We found them.
 GUARD #1:  Found them?  In Mercea?  The coconut's tropical!
 ARTHUR:  What do you mean?
 GUARD #1:  Well, this is a temperate zone.
 ARTHUR:  The swallow may fly south with the sun or the house
martin or the plumber may seek warmer climes in winter yet these
are not strangers to our land.
 GUARD #1:  Are you suggesting coconuts are migratory?
 ARTHUR:  Not at all, they could be carried.
 GUARD #1:  What -- a swallow carrying a coconut?

 ARTHUR:  It could grip it by the husk!
 GUARD #1:  It's not a question of where he grips it!  It's a
simple question of weight ratios!  A five ounce bird could not
carry a 1 pound coconut.
 ARTHUR:  Well, it doesn't matter.  Will you go and tell your
master that Arthur from the Court of Camelot is here.
 GUARD #1:  Listen, in order to maintain air-speed velocity, a
swallow needs to beat its wings 43 times every second, right?

 ARTHUR:  Please!
 GUARD #1:  Am I right?
 ARTHUR:  I'm not interested!
 GUARD #2:  It could be carried by an African swallow!
 GUARD #1:  Oh, yeah, an African swallow maybe, but not a European

   swallow, that's my point.
 GUARD #2:  Oh, yeah, I agree with that...
 ARTHUR:  Will you ask your master if he wants to join my court

 at Camelot?!
 GUARD #1:  But then of course African swallows are not migratory.
 GUARD #2:  Oh, yeah...
 GUARD #1:  So they couldn't bring a coconut back anyway...
     [clop clop]
 GUARD #2:  Wait a minute -- supposing two swallows carried it
together?
 GUARD #1:  No, they'd have to have it on a line.
 GUARD #2:  Well, simple!  They'd just use a standard creeper!
 GUARD #1:  What, held under the dorsal guiding feathers?
 GUARD #2:  Well, why not?
  Scene 2
 MORTICIAN:  Bring out your dead!
             Bring out your dead!
     [clang] Bring out your dead!
     [clang] Bring out your dead!
     [clang] Bring out your dead!
     [clang] Bring out your dead!
 CUSTOMER:  Here's one -- nine pence.
 DEAD PERSON:  I'm not dead!
 MORTICIAN:  What?
 CUSTOMER:  Nothing -- here's your nine pence.
 DEAD PERSON:  I'm not dead!
 MORTICIAN:  Here -- he says he's not dead!
 CUSTOMER:  Yes, he is.
 DEAD PERSON:  I'm not!
 MORTICIAN:  He isn't.
 CUSTOMER:  Well, he will be soon, he's very ill.
 DEAD PERSON:  I'm getting better!
 CUSTOMER:  No, you're not -- you'll be stone dead in a moment.
 MORTICIAN:  Oh, I can't take him like that -- it's against
regulations.
 DEAD PERSON:  I don't want to go in the cart!
 CUSTOMER:  Oh, don't be such a baby.
 MORTICIAN:  I can't take him...
 DEAD PERSON:  I feel fine!
 CUSTOMER:  Oh, do us a favor...
 MORTICIAN:  I can't.
 CUSTOMER:  Well, can you hang around a couple of minutes?  He
won't be long.
 MORTICIAN:  Naaah, I got to go on to Robinson's -- they've lost
nine today.
 CUSTOMER:  Well, when is your next round?
 MORTICIAN:  Thursday.
 DEAD PERSON:  I think I'll go for a walk.
 CUSTOMER:  You're not fooling anyone y'know.  Look, isn't there

  something you can do?
 DEAD PERSON:  I feel happy... I feel happy.
     [whop]
 CUSTOMER:  Ah, thanks very much.
 MORTICIAN:  Not at all.  See you on Thursday.
 CUSTOMER:  Right.
     [clop clop]
 MORTICIAN:  Who's that then?
 CUSTOMER:  I don't know.
 MORTICIAN:  Must be a king.
 CUSTOMER:  Why?
 MORTICIAN:  He hasn't got shit all over him.
  Scene 3
      [clop clop]
 ARTHUR:  Old woman!
 DENNIS:  Man!
 ARTHUR:  Man, sorry.  What knight lives in that castle over there?
 DENNIS:  I'm thirty seven.
 ARTHUR:  What?
 DENNIS:  I'm thirty seven -- I'm not old!
 ARTHUR:  Well, I can't just call you `Man'.
 DENNIS:  Well, you could say `Dennis'.
 ARTHUR:  Well, I didn't know you were called `Dennis.'
 DENNIS:  Well, you didn't bother to find out, did you?
 ARTHUR:  I did say sorry about the `old woman,' but from the
behind you looked--
 DENNIS:  What I object to is you automatically treat me like an
inferior!
 ARTHUR:  Well, I AM king...
 DENNIS:  Oh king, eh, very nice.  An' how'd you get that, eh?  By

   exploitin' the workers -- by 'angin' on to outdated imperialist
dogma which perpetuates the economic an' social differences in our
society! If there's ever going to be any progress--
 WOMAN:  Dennis, there's some lovely filth down here.  Oh -- how
d'you do?
 ARTHUR:  How do you do, good lady.  I am Arthur, King of the
Britons.  Who's castle is that?
 WOMAN:  King of the who?
 ARTHUR:  The Britons.
 WOMAN:  Who are the Britons?
 ARTHUR:  Well, we all are. we're all Britons and I am your king.
 WOMAN:  I didn't know we had a king.  I thought we were an
autonomous collective.
 DENNIS:  You're fooling yourself.  We're living in a dictatorship.

   A self-perpetuating autocracy in which the working classes--
 WOMAN:  Oh there you go, bringing class into it again.
 DENNIS:  That's what it's all about if only people would--
 ARTHUR:  Please, please good people.  I am in haste.  Who lives

  in that castle?
 WOMAN:  No one live there.
 ARTHUR:  Then who is your lord?
 WOMAN:  We don't have a lord.
 ARTHUR:  What?
 DENNIS:  I told you.  We're an anarcho-syndicalist commune.  We
take it in turns to act as a sort of executive officer for the
week.
 ARTHUR:  Yes.
 DENNIS:  But all the decision of that officer have to be ratified

   at a special biweekly meeting.
 ARTHUR:  Yes, I see.
 DENNIS:  By a simple majority in the case of purely internal
affairs,--
 ARTHUR:  Be quiet!
 DENNIS:  --but by a two-thirds majority in the case of more--
 ARTHUR:  Be quiet!  I order you to be quiet!
 WOMAN:  Order, eh -- who does he think he is?
 ARTHUR:  I am your king!
 WOMAN:  Well, I didn't vote for you.
 ARTHUR:  You don't vote for kings.
 WOMAN:  Well, 'ow did you become king then?
 ARTHUR:  The Lady of the Lake, [angels sing] her arm clad in the
purest shimmering samite, held aloft Excalibur from the bosom of
the water signifying by Divine Providence that I, Arthur, was to
carry Excalibur. [singing stops] That is why I am your king!
 DENNIS:  Listen -- strange women lying in ponds distributing
swords is no basis for a system of government.  Supreme executive
power derives from a mandate from the masses, not from some
farcical aquatic ceremony.
 ARTHUR:  Be quiet!
 DENNIS:  Well you can't expect to wield supreme executive power

  just 'cause some watery tart threw a sword at you!
 ARTHUR:  Shut up!
 DENNIS:  I mean, if I went around sayin' I was an empereror just

   because some moistened bint had lobbed a scimitar at me they'd

   put me away!
 ARTHUR:  Shut up!  Will you shut up!
 DENNIS:  Ah, now we see the violence inherent in the system.
 ARTHUR:  Shut up!
 DENNIS:  Oh!  Come and see the violence inherent in the system!

  HELP! HELP! I'm being repressed!
 ARTHUR:  Bloody peasant!
 DENNIS:  Oh, what a give away.  Did you here that, did you here
that, eh?  That's what I'm on about -- did you see him repressing
me, you saw it didn't you?
  Scene 4
     [battle sounds]
     [Black Knight defeats a worthless-piece-of-shit-knight]
 ARTHUR:  You fight with the strength of many men, Sir knight.

          I am Arthur, King of the Britons.
     [pause]
          I seek the finest and the bravest knights in the land to

          join me in my Court of Camelot.
     [pause]
          You have proved yourself worthy; will you join me?
     [pause]
          You make me sad.  So be it.  Come, Patsy.
 BLACK KNIGHT:  None shall pass.
 ARTHUR:  What?
 BLACK KNIGHT:  None shall pass.
 ARTHUR:  I have no quarrel with you, good Sir knight, but I must

   cross this bridge.
 BLACK KNIGHT:  Then you shall die.
 ARTHUR:  I command you as King of the Britons to stand aside!
 BLACK KNIGHT:  I move for no man.
 ARTHUR:  So be it!
     [hah]
     [parry thrust]
     [ARTHUR chops the BLACK KNIGHT's left arm off]
 ARTHUR:  Now stand aside, worthy adversary.
 BLACK KNIGHT:  'Tis but a scratch.
 ARTHUR:  A scratch?  Your arm's off!
 BLACK KNIGHT:  No, it isn't.
 ARTHUR:  Well, what's that then?
 BLACK KNIGHT:  I've had worse.
 ARTHUR:  You liar!
 BLACK KNIGHT:  Come on you pansy!
     [hah]
     [parry thrust]
     [ARTHUR chops the BLACK KNIGHT's right arm off]
 ARTHUR:  Victory is mine!
     [kneeling]
     We thank thee Lord, that in thy merc-
     [Black Knight kicks Arthur in the head while he is praying]
 BLACK KNIGHT:  Come on then.
 ARTHUR:  What?
 BLACK KNIGHT:  Have at you!
 ARTHUR:  You are indeed brave, Sir knight, but the fight is mine.
 BLACK KNIGHT:  Oh, had enough, eh?
 ARTHUR:  Look, you stupid bastard, you've got no arms left.
 BLACK KNIGHT:  Yes I have.
 ARTHUR:  Look!
 BLACK KNIGHT:  Just a flesh wound.
     [Headbutts Arthur in the chest]
 ARTHUR:  Look, stop that.
 BLACK KNIGHT:  Chicken!  Chicken!
 ARTHUR:  Look, I'll have your leg.  Right!
     [whop]
 BLACK KNIGHT:  Right, I'll do you for that!
 ARTHUR:  You'll what?
 BLACK KNIGHT:  Come 'ere!
 ARTHUR:  What are you going to do, bleed on me?
 BLACK KNIGHT:  I'm invincible!
 ARTHUR:  You're a loony.
 BLACK KNIGHT:  The Black Knight always triumphs!     Have at you!

Come on then.
     [whop]
     [ARTHUR chops the BLACK KNIGHT's other leg off]
 BLACK KNIGHT:  All right; we'll call it a draw.
 ARTHUR:  Come, Patsy.
 BLACK KNIGHT:  Oh, oh, I see, running away then.  You yellow

bastards!  Come back here and take what's coming to you. I'll bite
your legs off!
  Scene 5
 CROWD:  A witch!  A witch!  A witch!  We've got a witch!  A witch!
 VILLAGER #1:  We have found a witch, might we burn her?
 CROWD:  Burn her!  Burn!
 BEDEMIR:  How do you know she is a witch?
 VILLAGER #2:  She looks like one.
 BEDEMIR:  Bring her forward.
 WITCH:  I'm not a witch.  I'm not a witch.
 BEDEMIR:  But you are dressed as one.
 WITCH:  They dressed me up like this.
 CROWD:  No, we didn't -- no.
 WITCH:  And this isn't my nose, it's a false one.
 BEDEMIR:  Well?
 VILLAGER #1:  Well, we did do the nose.
 BEDEMIR:  The nose?
 VILLAGER #1:  And the hat -- but she is a witch!
 CROWD:  Burn her!  Witch!  Witch!  Burn her!
 BEDEMIR:  Did you dress her up like this?
 CROWD:  No, no... no ... yes.  Yes, yes, a bit, a bit.
 VILLAGER #1:  She has got a wart.
 BEDEMIR:  What makes you think she is a witch?
 VILLAGER #3:  Well, she turned me into a newt.
 BEDEMIR:  A newt?
 VILLAGER #3:  I got better.
 VILLAGER #2:  Burn her anyway!
 CROWD:  Burn!  Burn her!
 BEDEMIR:  Quiet, quiet.  Quiet!  There are ways of telling whether

   she is a witch.
 CROWD:  Are there?  What are they?
 BEDEMIR:  Tell me, what do you do with witches?
 VILLAGER #2:  Burn!
 CROWD:  Burn, burn them up!
 BEDEMIR:  And what do you burn apart from witches?
 VILLAGER #1:  More witches!
 VILLAGER #2:  Wood!
 BEDEMIR:  So, why do witches burn?
     [pause]
 VILLAGER #3:  B--... 'cause they're made of wood...?
 BEDEMIR:  Good!
 CROWD:  Oh yeah, yeah...
 BEDEMIR:  So, how do we tell whether she is made of wood?
 VILLAGER #1:  Build a bridge out of her.
 BEDEMIR:  Aah, but can you not also build bridges out of stone?
 VILLAGER #2:  Oh, yeah.
 BEDEMIR:  Does wood sink in water?
 VILLAGER #1:  No, no.
 VILLAGER #2:  It floats!  It floats!
 VILLAGER #1:  Throw her into the pond!
 CROWD:  The pond!
 BEDEMIR:  What also floats in water?
 VILLAGER #1:  Bread!
 VILLAGER #2:  Apples!
 VILLAGER #3:  Very small rocks!
 VILLAGER #1:  Cider!
 VILLAGER #2:  Great gravy!
 VILLAGER #1:  Cherries!
 VILLAGER #2:  Mud!
 VILLAGER #3:  Churches -- churches!
 VILLAGER #2:  Lead -- lead!
 ARTHUR:  A duck.
 CROWD:  Oooh.
 BEDEMIR:  Exactly!  So, logically...,
 VILLAGER #1:  If... she.. weighs the same as a duck, she's made of
wood.
 BEDEMIR:  And therefore--?
 VILLAGER #1:  A witch!
 CROWD:  A witch!

 BEDEMIR:  We shall use my largest scales!
     [yelling]
 BEDEMIR:  Right, remove the supports!
     [whop]
     [creak]
 CROWD:  A witch!  A witch!
 WITCH:  It's a fair cop.
 CROWD:  Burn her!  Burn!
  [yelling]
 BEDEMIR:  Who are you who are so wise in the ways of science?
 ARTHUR:  I am Arthur, King of the Britons.
 BEDEMIR:  My liege!
 ARTHUR:  Good Sir knight, will you come with me to Camelot,

and join us at the Round Table?
 BEDEMIR:  My liege!  I would be honored.
 ARTHUR:  What is your name?
 BEDEMIR:  Bedemir, my leige.
 ARTHUR:  Then I dub you Sir Bedemir, Knight of the Round Table.

   [Narrative Interlude]
 NARRATOR:  The wise Sir Bedemir was the first to join King
Arthur's knights, but other illustrious names were soon to follow:

Sir Launcelot the Brave; Sir Galahad the Pure; and Sir Robin the

Not-quite-so-brave-as-Sir-Launcelot who had nearly fought the
Dragon of Agnor, who had nearly stood up to the vicious Chicken of
Bristol and who had personally wet himself at the Battle of Badon
Hill; and the aptly named Sir Not-appearing-in-this-film.  Together
they formed a band whose names and deeds were to be retold
throughout the centuries, the Knights of the Round Table.
  Scene 6
  BEDEMIR:  And that, my liege, is how we know the Earth to be
banana-shaped.
 ARTHUR:  This new learning amazes me, Sir Bedemir.  Explain again
how sheeps' bladders may be employed to prevent earthquakes.
 BEDEMIR:  Oh, certainly, sir.
 LAUNCELOT:  Look, my liege!
 ARTHUR:  Camelot!
 GALAHAD:  Camelot!
 LAUNCELOT:  Camelot!
 PATSY:  It's only a model.
 ARTHUR:  Shhh!  Knights, I bid you welcome to your new home.  Let
us ride... to Camelot.
      [singing]
     We're knights of the round table
     We dance when e'er we're able
     We do routines and parlour scenes
     With footwork impecc-Able.
     We dine well here in Camelot
     We eat ham and jam and spam a lot
      [dancing]
     We're knights of the Round Table
     Our shows are for-mid-able
     Oh many times we're given rhymes
     That are quite unsing-able
     We not so fat in Camelot
     We sing from the diaphragm a lot
      [tap-dancing]
     Oh we're tough and able
     Quite indefatigable
     Between our quests we [something]
     And impersonate Clark Gable
     It's a bit too loud in Camelot
     I have to push the pram a lot.

 ARTHUR:  Well, on second thought, let's not go to Camelot -- it is
a silly place.     Right.
     Scene 7
 GOD:  Arthur!  Arthur, King of the Britons!  Oh, don't grovel!  If
there's one thing I can't stand, it's people groveling.
 ARTHUR:  Sorry--
 GOD:  And don't apologize.  Every time I try to talk to someone
it's "sorry this" and "forgive me that" and "I'm not worthy".  What
are you doing now!?
 ARTHUR:  I'm averting my eyes, oh Lord.
 GOD:  Well, don't.  It's like those miserable Psalms -- they're so

   depressing.  Now knock it off!
 ARTHUR:  Yes, Lord.
 GOD:  Right!  Arthur, King of the Britons -- you're Knights of the
Round Table shall have a task to make them an example in these dark
times.
 ARTHUR:  Good idea, oh Lord!
 GOD:  'Course it's a good idea!  Behold!  Arthur, this is the Holy

   Grail.  Look well, Arthur, for it is your sacred task to seek

  this Grail. That is your purpose, Arthur -- the Quest for the

  Holy Grail.
 ARTHUR:  A blessing!
 LAUNCELOT:  A blessing from the Lord!
 GALAHAD:  God be praised!
  Scene 8
      [clop clop]
 ARTHUR:  Halt!  Hallo!  Hallo!
 GUARD:  'Allo!  Who is zis?
 ARTHUR:  It is King Arthur, and these are the Knights of the Round

   Table.  Who's castle is this?
 GUARD:  This is the castle of my master, Guido Wommer!
 ARTHUR:  Go and tell your master that we have been charged by God

   with a sacred quest.  If he will give us food and shelter for
the night he can join us in our quest for the Holy Grail.
 GUARD:  Well, I'll ask him, but I don't think he'll be very
keen... Uh, he's already got one, you see?
 ARTHUR:  What?
 GALAHAD:  He says they've already got one!
 ARTHUR:  Are you sure he's got one?
 GUARD:  Oh, yes, it's very nice-a  (I told him we already got one)
 ARTHUR:  Well, um, can we come up and have a look?
 GUARD:  Of course not!  You are English types-a!
 ARTHUR:  Well, what are you then?
 GUARD:  I'm French!  Why do think I have this outrageous accent,
you silly king!
 GALAHAD:  What are you doing in England?
 GUARD:  Mind your own business!
 ARTHUR:  If you will not show us the Grail, we shall take your
castle by force!
 GUARD:  You don't frighten us, English pig-dogs!  Go and boil your

   bottoms, sons of a silly person.  I blow my nose at you,
so-called Arthur-king, you and all your silly English kaniggets.
Thppppt!
 GALAHAD:  What a strange person.
 ARTHUR:  Now look here, my good man!
 GUARD:  I don't want to talk to you no more, you empty headed
animal food trough water!  I fart in your general direction!  You
mother was a hamster and your father smelt of elderberries!
 GALAHAD:  Is there someone else up there we could talk to?
 GUARD:  No, now go away or I shall taunt you a second time-a!
 ARTHUR:  Now, this is your last chance.  I've been more than
reasonable.
 GUARD:  (Fetch-e la vache.)     wha?
 GUARD:  (Fetch-e la vache!)
     [moo!]
 ARTHUR:  If you do not agree to my commands, then I shall--
     [twong]
     [mooooooo]
     Jesus Christ!     Right!  Charge!
 ALL: Charge!
     [mayhem]
 GUARD:  Ah, this one is for your mother!
     [twong]
 ALL:  Run away!
 GUARD:  Thpppt!
     [ after running away...]
 LAUNCELOT:  Fiends!  I'll tear them apart!
 ARTHUR:  No no, no.
 BEDEMIR:  Sir!  I have a plan, sir.
      [later]
      [chop]
      [rumble rumble squeak]
 MUTTERING GUARDS:  ce labon a bunny do     wha?     un codoo?

a present!     oh, un codoo.     oui oui hurry!     wha-?     let's
go!
     [rumble rumble squeak]
 ARTHUR:  What happens now?
 BEDEMIR:  Well, now, uh, Launcelot, Galahad, and I, wait until
nightfall, and then leap out of the rabbit, taking the French by
surprise -- not only by surprise, but totally unarmed!
 ARTHUR:  Who leaps out?
 BEDEMIR:  Uh, Launcelot, Galahad, and I.  Uh, leap out of the
rabbit, uh and uh....
 ARTHUR:  Oh....
 BEDEMIR:  Oh....  Um, l-look, if we built this large wooden
badger--
     [twong]
 ALL:  Run away!  Run away!  Run away!  Run away!
     [splat]
 GUARDS:  Oh, haw haw haw.
  Scene 9
           Pictures for Schools, take 8.
 DIRECTOR:  Action!

 NARRATOR:  Defeat at the castle seems to have utterly disheartened

King Arthur.  The ferocity of the French taunting took him
completely by surprise, and Arthur became convinced that a new
strategy was required if the quest for the Holy Grail were to be
brought to a successful conclusion.  Arthur, having consulted his
closest knights, decided that they should separate, and search for
the Grail individually.  Now, this is what they did--
     [clop clop]
     [An unknown knight rides in and stabs the narrator]
 WOMAN:  Greg!
  Scene 10
 NARRATOR:  The Tale of Sir Robin....     So each of the knights
went their separate ways.  Sir Robin rode north, through the dark
forest of Ewing, accompanied by his favorite minstrels.
 MINSTREL (singing):
  Bravely bold Sir Robin, rode forth from Camelot.
  He was not afraid to die, o Brave Sir Robin.

  He was not at all afraid to be killed in nasty ways.

  Brave, brave, brave, brave Sir Robin!

  He was not in the least bit scared to be mashed into a pulp,

  Or to have his eyes gouged out, and his elbows broken.

  To have his kneecaps split, and his body burned away,

  And his limbs all hacked and mangled, brave Sir Robin!

  His head smashed in and his heart cut out,

  And his liver removed and his bowels unplugged,

  And his nostrils ripped and his bottom burned off,

  And his balls...
 ROBIN:  That's -- that's, uh, that's enough music for now, lads.

   Looks like there's dirty work afoot.
 DENNIS:  Anarcho-syndicalism is a way of preserving freedom.
 WOMAN:  Oh, Dennis, forget about freedom.  Now I've dropped my
mud.
 ALL HEADS:  Halt!  Who art thou?
 MINSTREL (singing):  He is brave Sir Robin, brave Sir Robin, who--
 ROBIN:  Shut up!  Um, n-n-nobody really, I'm j-just um, just
passing through.
 ALL HEADS:  What do you want?
 MINSTREL (singing):  To fight, and--
 ROBIN:  Shut up!  Um, oo, n-nothing, nothing really -- I, uh,
j-j-ust to um, just to p-pass through good Sir knight.
 ALL HEADS:  I'm afraid not!
 ROBIN:  Ah.  W-well, actually I am a Knight of the Round Table.
 ALL HEADS:  You're a Knight of the Round Table?
 ROBIN:  I am.
 LEFT HEAD:  In that case I shall have to kill you.
 MIDDLE HEAD:  Shall I?
 RIGHT HEAD:  Oh, I don't think so.
 MIDDLE HEAD:  Well, what do I think?
 LEFT HEAD:  I think kill him.
 RIGHT HEAD:  Well let's be nice to him.
 MIDDLE HEAD:  Oh shut up.
 LEFT HEAD:  Perhaps-
 MIDDLE HEAD:  And you.
 LEFT HEAD:  Oh quick get the sword out I want to cut his head off!
 RIGHT HEAD:  Oh, cut your own head off!
 MIDDLE HEAD:  Yes, do us all a favor!
 LEFT HEAD:  What?
 RIGHT HEAD:  Yapping on all the time.
 MIDDLE HEAD:  You're lucky, you're not next to him.
 LEFT HEAD:  What do you mean?
 MIDDLE HEAD:  You snore.
 LEFT HEAD:  Oh I don't -- anyway, you've got bad breath.
 MIDDLE HEAD:  Well its only because you don't brush my teeth.
 RIGHT HEAD:  Oh stop bitching and let's go have tea.
 LEFT HEAD:  All right all right all right we'll kill him first
 and then have tea and biscuits.

 ROBIN:  No!
 MINSTREL (singing):  Yes Brave Sir Robin turned about
 ROBIN:  I didn't!
 MINSTREL (singing):  And gallantly he chickened out

                      Bravely taking to his feet
 ROBIN:  I never did!
 MINSTREL (singing):  He beat a very brave retreat
 ROBIN:  Oh, lie!
 MINSTREL (singing):  Bravest of the brave Sir Robin
 ROBIN:  I never!
  Scene 11
 NARRATOR:  The Tale of Sir Galahad
      [boom crash]
      [angels singing]
      [pound pound pound]
 GALAHAD:  Open the door!     Open the door!
      [pound pound pound]
     In the name of King Arthur, open the door!
     [squeak thump]
     [squeak boom]
 ALL:  Hello!
 ZOOT:  Welcome gentle Sir knight, welcome to the Castle Anthrax.
 GALAHAD:  The Castle Anthrax?
 ZOOT:  Yes... oh, it's not a very good name is it?  Oh! but we are

   nice and we shall attend to your every, every need!
 GALAHAD:  You are the keepers of the Holy Grail?
 ZOOT:  The what?
 GALAHAD:  The Grail -- it is here?
 ZOOT:  Oh, but you are tired, and you must rest awhile.  Midget!

   Crepper!
 MIDGET and CREPPER:  Yes, oh Zoot!
 ZOOT:  Prepare a bed for our guest.
 MIDGET and CREPPER:  Oh thank you thank you thank you--
 ZOOT:  Away away vile peasents!  The beds here are warm and soft
-- and very, very big.
 GALAHAD:  Well, look, I-I-uh--
 ZOOT:  What is your name, handsome knight?
 GALAHAD:  Sir Galahad... the Chaste.
 ZOOT:  Mine is Zoot... just Zoot.  Oh, but come!
 GALAHAD:  Look, please!  In God's name, show me the Grail!
 ZOOT:  Oh, you have suffered much!  You are delirious!
 GALAHAD:  L-look, I have seen it!  It is here, in the--
 ZOOT:  Sir Galahad!  You would not be so ungallant as to refuse
our hospitality.
 GALAHAD:  Well, I-I-uh--
 ZOOT:  Oh, I am afraid our life must seem very dull and quiet
compared to yours.  We are but eight score young blondes and
brunettes, all between sixteen and nineteen and a half, cut off in
this castle with no one to protect us!  Oh, it is a lonely life --
bathing, dressing, undressing, making exciting underwear....  We
are just not used to handsome knights. Nay, nay, come, come, you
may lie here.  Oh, but you are wounded!
 GALAHAD:  No, no -- i-it's nothing!
 ZOOT:  Oh, but you must see the doctors immediately!  No, no,
please, lie down.
     [clap clap]
 PIGLET:  Ah.  What seems to be the trouble?
 GALAHAD:  They're doctors?!
 ZOOT:  Uh, they've had a basic medical training, yes.
 GALAHAD:  B-but--
 ZOOT:  Oh, come come, you must try to rest!  Doctor Piglet,

Doctor Winston, practice your art.
 PIGLET:  Try to relax.
 GALAHAD:  Are you sure that's necessary?
 PIGLET:  We must examine you.
 GALAHAD:  There's nothing wrong with that!
 PIGLET:  Please -- we are doctors.
 GALAHAD:  Get off the bed!  I am sworn to chastity!
 PIGLET:  Back to your bed!
 GALAHAD:  Torment me no longer!  I have seen the Grail!
 PIGLET:  There's no grail here.
 GALAHAD:  I have seen it, I have seen it.  I have seen--
 GIRLS:  Hello.
 GALAHAD:  Oh--
 VARIOUS GIRLS:  Hello.     Hello.     Hello.     Hello.     Hello.

   Hello.     Hello.     Hello.     Hello.     Hello.     Hello.

  Hello.
 GALAHAD:  Zoot!
 DINGO:  No, I am Zoot's identical twin sister, Dingo.
 GALAHAD:  Oh, well, excuse me, I--
 DINGO:  Where are you going?
 GALAHAD:  I seek the Grail!  I have seen it, here in this castle!
 DINGO:  No!  Oh, no!  Bad, bad Zoot!
 GALAHAD:  What is it?
 DINGO:  Oh, wicked, bad, naughty Zoot!  She has been setting
alight to our beacon, which, I just remembered, is grail-shaped.

It's not the first time we've had this problem.
 GALAHAD:  It's not the real Grail?
 DINGO:  Oh, wicked, bad, naughty, evil Zoot!  Oh, she is a naughty

   person, and she must pay the penalty -- and here in Castle
Anthrax, we have but one punishment for setting alight the
grail-shaped beacon.  You must tie her down on a bed and spank her!
 GIRLS:  A spanking!  A spanking!
 DINGO:  You must spank her well.  And after you have spanked her,
you may deal with her as you like.  And then, spank me.
 VARIOUS GIRLS:  And spank me.     And me.     And me.
 DINGO:  Yes, yes, you must give us all a good spanking!
 GIRLS:  A spanking!  A spanking!
 DINGO:  And after the spanking, the oral sex.
 GIRLS:  Oral sex!  Oral sex!
 GALAHAD:  Well, I could stay a BIT longer.
 LAUNCELOT:  Sir Galahad!
 GALAHAD:  Oh, hello.
 LAUNCELOT:  Quick!
 GALAHAD:  What?
 LAUNCELOT:  Quick!
 GALAHAD:  Why?
 LAUNCELOT:  You're in great peril!
 GALAHAD:
 ZOOT:
 LAUNCELOT:  Silence, foul temptress!
 GALAHAD:  Now look, it's not important.
 LAUNCELOT:  Quick!  Come on and we'll cover your escape!
 GALAHAD:  Look, I'm fine!
 LAUNCELOT:  Come on!
 GALAHAD:  Now look, I can tackle this lot single-handed!
 DINGO:  Yes!  Let him tackle us single-handed!
 GIRLS:  Yes!  Tackle us single-handed!
 LAUNCELOT:  No, Sir Galahad, come on!
 GALAHAD:  No, really, honestly, I can go back and handle this lot
easily!
 DINGO:  Oh, yes, let him handle us easily.
 GIRLS:  Yes, yes!
 GALAHAD:  Wait!  I can defeat them!  There's only a hundred and
fifty of them!
 DINGO:  Yes, yes, he'll beat us easily, we haven't a chance.
 GIRLS:  Yes, yes.
     [boom]
 DINGO:  Oh, shit.
     [outside]
 LAUNCELOT:  We were in the nick of time, you were in great peril.
 GALAHAD:  I don't think I was.
 LAUNCELOT:  Yes you were, you were in terrible peril.
 GALAHAD:  Look, let me go back in there and face the peril.
 LAUNCELOT:  No, it's too perilous.
 GALAHAD:  Look, [something] as much peril as I can.
 LAUNCELOT:  No, we've got to find the Holy Grail.  Come on!
 GALAHAD:  Well, let me have just a little bit of peril?
 LAUNCELOT:  No, it's unhealthy.
 GALAHAD:  Bet you're gay!
 LAUNCELOT:  No, I'm not.
  Narrative Interlude
 NARRATOR:  Sir Launcelot had saved Sir Galahad from almost certain

   temptation, but they were still no nearer the Grail.  Meanwhile,

   King Arthur and Sir Bedemir, not more than a swallow's flight
away, had  discovered something.  Oh, that's an unladen swallow's
flight, obviously. I mean, they were more than two laden swallow's
flights away -- four, really, if they hadn't a cord of line between
them. I mean, if the birds were walking and dragging--
 CROWD:  Get on with it!
 NARRATOR:  Oh, anyway, on to scene twenty-four, which is a
smashing scene with some lovely acting, in which Arthur discovers
a vital clue, in which there aren't any swallows, although I think
you can hear a starling -oolp!
  Scene 12
 OLD MAN:  Ah, hee he he ha!
 ARTHUR:  And this enchanter of whom you speak, he has seen the
grail?
 OLD MAN:  Ha ha he he he he!
 ARTHUR:  Where does he live?  Old man, where does he live?
 OLD MAN:  He knows of a cave, a cave which no man has entered.
 ARTHUR:  And the Grail... The Grail is there?
 OLD MAN:  Very much danger, for beyond the cave lies the Gorge

 of Eternal Peril, which no man has ever crossed.
 ARTHUR:  But the Grail!  Where is the Grail!?
 OLD MAN:  Seek you the Bridge of Death.
 ARTHUR:  The Bridge of Death, which leads to the Grail?
 OLD MAN:  Hee hee ha ha!
  Scene 13
 HEAD KNIGHT:  Nee!     Nee!     Nee!     Nee!
 ARTHUR:  Who are you?
 HEAD KNIGHT:  We are the Knights Who Say... Nee!
 ARTHUR:  No!  Not the Knights Who Say Nee!
 HEAD KNIGHT:  The same!
 BEDEMIR:  Who are they?
 HEAD KNIGHT:  We are the keepers of the sacred words:  Nee, Pang,
and Nee-wom!
 RANDOM:  Nee-wom!
 ARTHUR:  Those who hear them seldom live to tell the tale!
 HEAD KNIGHT:  The Knights Who Say Nee demand a sacrifice!
 ARTHUR:  Knights of Nee, we are but simple travellers who seek the

   enchanter who lives beyond these woods.
 HEAD KNIGHT:  Nee!  Nee!  Nee!  Nee!
 ARTHUR and PARTY:  Oh, ow!
 HEAD KNIGHT:  We shall say 'nee' again to you if you do not
appease us.
 ARTHUR:  Well, what is it you want?
 HEAD KNIGHT:  We want... a shrubbery!
     [dramatic chord]
 ARTHUR:  A what?
 HEAD KNIGHT:  Nee!  Nee!
 ARTHUR and PARTY:  Oh, ow!
 ARTHUR:  Please, please!  No more!  We shall find a shrubbery.
 HEAD KNIGHT:  You must return here with a shrubbery or else you
will never pass through this wood alive!
 ARTHUR:  O Knights of Nee, you are just and fair, and we will
return with a shrubbery.
 HEAD KNIGHT:  One that looks nice.
 ARTHUR:  Of course.
 HEAD KNIGHT:  And not too expensive.
 ARTHUR:  Yes.
 HEAD KNIGHTS:  Now... go!
  Scene 14
 NARRATOR:  The Tale of Sir Launcelot.

 FATHER:  One day, lad, all this will be yours!
 HERBERT:  What, the curtains?
 FATHER:  No, not the curtains, lad.  All that you can see!
Stretched out over the hills and valleys of this land!  This'll be
your kingdom, lad!
 HERBERT:  But, Mother--
 FATHER:  Father, I'm Father.
 HERBERT:  But Father, I don't want any of that.
 FATHER:  Listen, lad.  I've built this kingdom up from nothing.

When I started here, all there was was swamp.  The king said I was

daft to build a castle in a swamp, but I built it all the same,

just to show 'em.  It sank into the swamp.  So, I built a second
one. That sank into the swamp.  So I built a third one.  That
burned down, fell over, then sank into the swamp.  But the fourth
one stayed up. An' that's what your gonna get, lad -- the strongest
castle in these islands.
 HERBERT:  But I don't want any of that -- I'd rather--
 FATHER:  Rather what?!
 HERBERT:  I'd rather... just...     [music]     ...sing!
 FATHER:  Stop that, stop that!  You're not going to do a song
while I'm here.  Now listen lad, in twenty minutes you're getting
married to a girl whose father owns the biggest tracts of open land
in Britain.
 HERBERT:  But I don't want land.
 FATHER:  Listen, Alice...
 HERBERT:  Herbert.
 FATHER:  Herbert.  We live in a bloody swamp.  We need all the
land we can get.
 HERBERT:  But I don't like her.
 FATHER:  Don't like her?!  What's wrong with her?  She's
beautiful, she's rich, she's got huge... tracts of land.
 HERBERT:  I know, but I want the girl that I marry to have...

a certain... special... [music]     ...something...
 FATHER:  Cut that out, cut that out.  Look, you're marryin'
Princess Looky, so you'd better get used to the idea. [smack]

Guards!  Make sure the Prince doesn't leave this room until I come
and get 'im.
 GUARD #1:  Not to leave the room even if you come and get him.
 GUARD #2:  Hic!
 FATHER:  No, no.  Until I come and get 'im.
 GUARD #1:  Until you come and get him, we're not to enter the
room.
 FATHER:  No, no, no.  You stay in the room and make sure 'e
doesn't leave.
 GUARD #1:  And you'll come and get him.
 GUARD #2:  Hic!
 FATHER:  Right.
 GUARD #1:  We don't need to do anything, apart from just stop him

   entering the room.
 FATHER:  No, no.  Leaving the room.
 GUARD #1:  Leaving the room, yes.
 FATHER:  All right?
 GUARD #1:  Right.  Oh, if-if-if, uh, if-if-if, uh, if-if-if we...
 FATHER:  Yes, what is it?
 GUARD #1:  Oh, if-if, oh--
 FATHER:  Look, it's quite simple.
 GUARD #1:  Uh...
 FATHER:  You just stay here, and make sure 'e doesn't leave the
room. All right?

 GUARD #2:  Hic!
 FATHER:  Right.
 GUARD #1:  Oh, I remember.  Uh, can he leave the room with us?
 FATHER:  N- No no no.  You just keep him in here, and make sure--
 GUARD #1:  Oh, yes, we'll keep him in here, obviously.  But if he
had to leave and we were--
 FATHER:  No, no, just keep him in here--
 GUARD #1:  Until you, or anyone else,--
 FATHER:  No, not anyone else, just me--
 GUARD #1:  Just you.
 GUARD #2:  Hic!
 FATHER:  Get back.
 GUARD #1:  Get back.
 FATHER:  Right?
 GUARD #1:  Right, we'll stay here until you get back.
 FATHER:  And, uh, make sure he doesn't leave.
 GUARD #1:  What?
 FATHER:  Make sure 'e doesn't leave.
 GUARD #1:  The Prince?
 FATHER:  Yes, make sure 'e doesn't leave.
 GUARD #1:  Oh, yes, of course.  I thought you meant him.  Y'know,
it seemed a bit daft, me havin' to guard him when he's a guard.
 FATHER:  Is that clear?
 GUARD #2:  Hic!
 GUARD #1:  Oh, quite clear, no problems.
 FATHER:  Right.
     [starts to leave]
     Where are you going?
 GUARD #1:  We're coming with you.
 FATHER:  No no, I want you to stay 'ere and make sure 'e doesn't
leave.
 GUARD #1:  Oh, I see.  Right.
 HERBERT:  But, Father!
 FATHER:  Shut your noise, you!  And get that suit on!  And no
singing!
 GUARD #2:  Hic!
 FATHER:  Oh, go get a glass of water.

  Scene 15
 LAUNCELOT:  Well taken, Concorde!
 CONCORDE:  Thank you, sir!  Most kind.
 LAUNCELOT:  And again... Over we go!  Good.  Steady!  And now, the
big one...Ooof!  Come on, Concorde!
     [thwonk]
 CONCORDE:  Message for you, sir.
     [fwump]
 LAUNCELOT:  Concorde!  Concorde, speak to me!  "To whoever finds
this note, I have been imprisoned by my father, who wishes me to
marry against my will.  Please, please, please come and rescue me.

I am in the tall tower of Swamp Castle."  At last!  A call, a cry
of distress!  This could be the sign that leads us to the Holy
Grail! Brave, brave Concorde!  You shall not have died in vain!

 CONCORDE:  Uh, I'm-I'm not quite dead, sir.
 LAUNCELOT:  Well, you shall not have been mortally wounded in
vain!
 CONCORDE:  Uh, I-I think uh, I could pull through, sir.
 LAUNCELOT:  Oh, I see.
 CONCORDE:  Actually, I think I'm all right to come with you--
 LAUNCELOT:  No, no, sweet Concorde!  Stay here!  I will send help
as soon as I have accomplished a daring and heroic rescue in my own

particular... (sigh)
 CONCORDE:  Idiom, sir?
 LAUNCELOT:  Idiom!
 CONCORDE:  No, I feel fine, actually, sir.
 LAUNCELOT:  Farewell, sweet Concorde!
 CONCORDE:  I'll-uh, I'll just stay here, then, shall I, sir? Yeah.

  Scene 16
 LAUNCELOT:  Ha-ha! etc.
 GUARD #1:  Now, you're not allowed to come in here, and we're-ugh!
 LAUNCELOT:  O fair one, behold your humble servant Sir Launcelot

   of Camelot.  I have come to take -- oh, I'm terribly sorry.
 HERBERT:  You got my note!
 LAUNCELOT:  Uh, well, I got A note.
 HERBERT:  You've come to rescue me!
 LAUNCELOT:  Uh, well, no, you see--
 HERBERT:  I knew that someone would, I knew that somewhere out
there...     there must be...     [music]     ...someone...
 FATHER:  Stop that, stop that, stop it!  Stop it!  Who are you?
 HERBERT:  I'm your son!
 FATHER:  No, not you.
 LAUNCELOT:  I'm Sir Launcelot, sir.
 HERBERT:  He's come to rescue me, father.
 LAUNCELOT:  Well, let's not jump to conclusions.
 FATHER:  Did you kill all the guard?
 LAUNCELOT:  Uh..., oh, yes.  Sorry.
 FATHER:  They cost fifty pounds each.
 LAUNCELOT:  Well, I'm awfully sorry, I'm -- I really can explain
everything.
 HERBERT:  Don't be afraid of him, Sir Launcelot, I've got a rope
all ready!
 FATHER:  You killed eight wedding guests in all!
 LAUNCELOT:  Well, you see, the thing is, I thought your son was a
lady.
 FATHER:  I can understand that.
 HERBERT:  Hurry, Sir Launcelot!  Hurry!
 FATHER:  Shut up!  You only killed the bride's father, that's all!
 LAUNCELOT:  Well, I really didn't mean to...
 FATHER:  Didn't mean to?!  You put your sword right through his
head!
 LAUNCELOT:  Oh, dear.  Is he all right?
 FATHER:  You even kicked the bride in the chest!  This is going to
cost me a fortune!
 LAUNCELOT:  Well, I can explain.  I was in the forest, um, riding
north from Camelot, when I got this note, you see--
 FATHER:  Camelot?  Are you from, uh, Camelot?
 HERBERT:  Hurry, Sir Launcelot!
 LAUNCELOT:  Uh, I am a Knight of King Arthur, sir.
 FATHER:  Pretty nice castle, Camelot.  Uh, pretty good pig
country....
 LAUNCELOT:  Yes.
 HERBERT:  Hurry, I'm ready!
 FATHER:  Would you, uh, like to come and have a drink?
 LAUNCELOT:  Well, that's, uh, awfully nice of you.
 HERBERT:  I am ready!
     [start to leave]
 LAUNCELOT:  --I mean to be, so understanding.
     [thonk]
 HERBERT:  Oooh!
 LAUNCELOT:  Um, I think when I'm in this idiom, I sometimes get a
bit, uh, sort of carried away.
 FATHER:  Oh, don't worry about that.
 HERBERT:  Oooh!
    [splat]
  Scene 17
    [wailing]
 FATHER:  Well, this is the main hall.  We're going to have all
this knocked through, and made into one big, uh, living room.
 RANDOM:  There he is!
 FATHER:  Oh, bloody hell.
 LAUNCELOT:  Ha-ha! etc.
 FATHER:  Hold it, hold it!  Please!
 LAUNCELOT:  Sorry, sorry.  See what I mean, I just get carried
away. I really must -- sorry, sorry!  Sorry, everyone.
 RANDOM:  He's killed the best man!
     [yelling]
 FATHER:  Hold it, please!  Hold it!  This is Sir Launcelot from
the gorge of Camelot -- a very brave and influential knight, and my
special guest here today.
 LAUNCELOT:  Hello.
 RANDOM:  He killed my auntie!
     [yelling]
 FATHER:  Please, please!  This is supposed to be a happy occasion!

   Let's not bicker and argue about who killed who.  We are here
today to witness the union of two young people in the joyful bond
of the holy wedlock.  Unfortunately, one of them, my son Herbert,
has just fallen to his death.  But I think I've not lost a son, so
much as... gained a daughter!  For, since the tragic death of her
father--
 RANDOM:  He's not quite dead!
 FATHER:  Since the near fatal wounding of her father--
 RANDOM:  He's getting better!
 FATHER:  For, since her own father... who, when he seemed about to

   recover, suddenly felt the icy hand of death upon him,--
     [ugh]
 RANDOM:  Oh, he's died!
 FATHER:  And I want his only daughter to look upon me... as her
own dad -- in a very real, and legally binding sense.
     [clapping]
     And I feel sure that the merger -- uh, the union -- between
the Princess and the brave, but dangerous, Sir Launcelot of
Camelot--
 LAUNCELOT:  What?
 RANDOM:  Look!  The dead Prince!
 CONCORDE:  He's not quite dead!
 HERBERT:  Oh, I feel much better.
 FATHER:  You fell out of the cold tower, you creep!
 HERBERT:  No, I was saved at the last minute.
 FATHER:  How?!
 HERBERT:  Well, I'll tell you...     [music]
 FATHER:  Not like that!  Not like that!  No, stop it!
 SINGING:  He's going to tell!  He's going to tell!
 FATHER:  Shut up!
 SINGING:  He's going to tell!  He's going to tell!
           He's going to tell!  He's going to tell!
           He's going to tell!  He's going to tell!
           He's going to tell!  He's going to tell!
 CONCORDE:  Quickly, sir!  This way!
 LAUNCELOT:  No, it's not in my idiom!  I must escape in my own
particular....(sigh)
 CONCORDE:  Dogma, sir?
 LAUNCELOT:  Dogma!  Hee!  Ha!
     [crash]
     Excuse me, could, uh, could somebody give me a push,
please...?
  Scene 18
      [clop clop]
 ARTHUR:  Old crone!  Is there anywhere in this town where we could
buy a shrubbery!
     [dramatic chord]
 CRONE:  Who sent you?
 ARTHUR:  The Knights Who Say Nee.
 CRONE:  Agh!  No!  Never!  We have no shrubberies here.
 ARTHUR:  If you do not tell us where we can buy a shrubbery, my
friend and I will say... we will say... `nee'.
 CRONE:  Agh!  Do your worst!
 ARTHUR:  Very well!  If you will not assist us voluntarily,...
nee!
 CRONE:  No!  Never!  No shrubberies!
 ARTHUR:  Nee!
 BEDEMIR:  Noo!  Noo!
 ARTHUR:  No, no, no, no -- it's not that, it's 'nee'.
 BEDEMIR:  Noo!
 ARTHUR:  No, no -- 'nee'.  You're not doing it properly.
 BEDEMIR:  Noo!  Nee!
 ARTHUR:  That's it, that's it, you've got it.
 ARTHUR and BEDEMIR:  Nee!  Nee!
 ROGER:  Are you saying 'nee' to that old woman?
 ARTHUR:  Um, yes.
 ROGER:  Oh, what sad times are these when passing ruffians can
`nee' at will to old ladies.  There is a pestilence upon this land,
nothing is sacred.  Even those who arrange and design shrubberies
are under considerable economic stress at this period in history.
 ARTHUR:  Did you say `shrubberies'?
 ROGER:  Yes, shrubberies are my trade -- I am a shrubber.  My name

   is Roger the Shrubber.  I arrange, design, and sell shrubberies.
 BEDEMIR:  Nee!
 ARTHUR:  No!  No, no, no!  No!
  Scene 19
 ARTHUR:  O, Knights of Nee, we have brought you your shrubbery.

May we go now?
 HEAD KNIGHT:  It is a good shrubbery.  I like the laurels
particularly. But there is one small problem.
 ARTHUR:  What is that?
 HEAD KNIGHT:  We are now... no longer the Knights Who Say Nee.
 RANDOM:  Nee!
 HEAD KNIGHT:  Shh shh.  We are now the Knights Who Say
Ecky-ecky-ecky-ecky-pikang-zoom-boing-mumble-mumble.
 RANDOM:  Nee!
 HEAD KNIGHT:  Therefore, we must give you a test.
 ARTHUR:  What is this test, O Knights of-- Knights Who 'Til
Recently Said Nee?
 HEAD KNIGHT:  Firstly, you must find... another shrubbery!
     [dramatic chord]
 ARTHUR:  Not another shrubbery!
 HEAD KNIGHT:  Then, when you have found the shrubbery, you must
place it here beside this shrubbery, only slightly higher so you
get a two-level effect with a little path running down the middle.
 RANDOM:  A path!  A path!  Nee!
 HEAD KNIGHT:  Then, when you have found the shrubbery, you must
cut down the mightiest tree in the forest... with... a herring!
     [dramatic chord]
 ARTHUR:  We shall do no such thing!
 HEAD KNIGHT:  Oh, please!
 ARTHUR:  Cut down a tree with a herring?  It can't be done.
 KNIGHTS:  Aaaaugh!  Aaaugh!
 HEAD KNIGHT:  Don't say that word.
 ARTHUR:  What word?
 HEAD KNIGHT:  I cannot tell, suffice to say is one of the words

  the Knights of Nee cannot hear.
 ARTHUR:  How can we not say the word if you don't tell us what it
is?
 KNIGHTS:  Aaaaugh!  Aaaugh!
 ARTHUR:  What, `is'?
 HEAD KNIGHT:  No, not `is' -- we couldn't get vary far in life not

   saying `is'.
 BEDEMIR:  My liege, it's Sir Robin!
 MINSTREL (singing):  Packing it in and packing it up

                      And sneaking away and buggering up

                      And chickening out and pissing about

                      Yes, bravely he is throwing in the sponge
 ARTHUR:  Oh, Robin! ROBIN:  My liege!  It's good to see you!
 KNIGHTS:  Aaaaugh!
 HEAD KNIGHT:  He said the word!
 ARTHUR:  Surely you've not given up your quest for the Holy Grail?
 MINSTREL (singing):  He is sneaking away and buggering up--
 ROBIN:  Shut up!  No, no no-- far from it.
 HEAD KNIGHT:  He said the word again!
 ROBIN:  I was looking for it.
 KNIGHTS:  Aaaaugh!
 ROBIN:  Uh, here, here in this forest.
 ARTHUR:  No, it is far from--
 KNIGHTS:  Aaaaugh!
 HEAD KNIGHT:  Aaaaugh!  Stop saying the word!
 ARTHUR:  Oh, stop it!

 KNIGHTS:  Aaaaugh!
 HEAD KNIGHT:  Oh!  He said it again!
 ARTHUR:  Patsy!
 HEAD KNIGHT:  Aaugh!  I said it!  I said it!  Ooh!  I said it
again!
 KNIGHTS:  Aaaaugh!
  Narrative Interlude
 NARRATOR:  And so Arthur and Bedemir and Sir Robin set out on
their search to find the enchanter of whom the old man had spoken
in Scene 24.     Beyond the forest they met Launcelot and Galahad,
and there was much rejoicing.
 ALL:  Yay!  Yay!
 NARRATOR:  In the frozen land of Nador they were forced to eat
Robin's minstrels.  And there was much rejoicing.
 ALL:  Yay!
 NARRATOR:  A year passed.  Winter changed into Spring.  Spring
changed into Summer.  Summer changed back into Winter.  And Winter
gave Spring and Summer a miss and went straight on into Autumn.

Until one day...
  Scene 20

 ARTHUR:  Knights!  Forward!
     [boom boom boom boom BOOM boom boom boom boom]
     What manner of man are you that can summon up fire without
flint or tinder?
 TIM:  I... am an enchanter.
 ARTHUR:  By what name are you known?
 TIM:  There are some who call me... Tim?
 ARTHUR:  Greetings, Tim the Enchanter.
 TIM:  Greetings, King Arthur!
 ARTHUR:  You know my name?
 TIM:  I do.
     [zoosh]
     You seek the Holy Grail!
 ARTHUR:  That is our quest.  You know much that is hidden, O Tim.
 TIM:  Quite.
     [pweeng boom]
     [clap clap clap]
 ARTHUR:  Yes, we're, we're looking for the Grail.  Our quest is to
find the Holy Grail.
 KNIGHTS:  It is, yes, yup, yes, yeah.
 ARTHUR:  And so we're, we're, we're, we're looking for it.
 KNIGHTS:  Yes we are we are.
 BEDEMIR:  We have been for some time.
 ROBIN:  Ages.
 ARTHUR:  Uh, so, uh, anything you can do to, uh, to help, would
be... very... helpful...
 GALAHAD:  Look, can you tell us wh-
     [boom]
 ARTHUR:  Fine, um, I don't want to waste anymore of your time,
but, uh I don't suppose you could, uh, tell us where we might find
a, um, find a, uh, a, um, a uh--
 TIM:  A what...?
 ARTHUR:  A g--, a g--
 TIM:  A Grail?!
 ARTHUR:  Yes, I think so.
 KNIGHTS:  Yes, that's it.  Yes.
 TIM:  Yes!
 KNIGHTS:  Oh, thank you, splendid, fine.
     [boom pweeng boom boom]
 ARTHUR:  Look, you're a busy man, uh--
 TIM:  Yes, I can help you find the Holy Grail.
 KNIGHTS:  Oh, thank you.
 TIM:  To the north there lies a cave -- the cave of Kyre Banorg --

   wherein, carved in mystic runes upon the very living rock, the
last words of Ulfin Bedweer of Regett [boom] proclaim the last
resting place of the most Holy Grail.
 ARTHUR:  Where could we find this cave, O Tim?
 TIM:  Follow!  But! follow only if ye be men of valor, for the
entrance to this cave is guarded by a creature so foul, so cruel
that no man yet has fought with it and lived!  Bones of four fifty
men lie strewn about its lair. So, brave knights, if you do doubt
your courage or your strength, come no further, for death awaits
you all with nasty big pointy teeth.
 ARTHUR:  What an eccentric performance.
  Scene 21
         [clop clop whinny]
 ???:  They're nervous, sire.
 ARTHUR:  Then we'd best leave them here and carry on on foot.

Dis-mount!
 TIM:  Behold the cave of Kyre Banorg!
 ARTHUR:  Right!  Keep me covered.
 ???:  What with?
 ARTHUR:  Just keep me covered.
 TIM:  Too late!
     [chord]
 ARTHUR:  What?
 TIM:  There he is!
 ARTHUR:  Where?
 TIM:  There!
 ARTHUR:  What, behind the rabbit?
 TIM:  It is the rabbit!
 ARTHUR:  You silly sod!  You got us all worked up!
 TIM:  Well, that's no ordinary rabbit.  That's the most foul,
cruel, and bad-tempered rodent you ever set eyes on.
 ROBIN:  You tit!  I soiled my armor I was so scared!
 TIM:  Look, that rabbit's got a vicious streak a mile wide, it's
a killer!
 ???:  Get stuffed!
 TIM:  It'll do you a trick, mate!
 ???:  Oh, yeah?
 ROBIN:  You monkey's scot's get!
 TIM:  I'm warning you!
 ROBIN:  What's he do, nibble your bum?
 TIM:  He's got huge, sharp-- he can leap about-- look at the
bones!
 ARTHUR:  Go on, Boris.  Chop his head off!
 BORIS:  Right!  Silly little bleeder.  One rabbit stew comin'
right up!
 TIM:  Look!
     [squeak]
 BORIS:  Aaaugh!
     [chord]
 ARTHUR:  Jesus Christ!
 TIM:  I warned you!
 ROBIN:  I peed again!
 TIM:  I warned you!  But did you listen to me?  Oh, no, you knew
it all, didn't you?  Oh, it's just a harmless little bunny, isn't
it?  Well, it's always the same,  I always--
 ARTHUR:  Oh, shut up!
 TIM:  --But do they listen to me?--
 ARTHUR:  Right!
 TIM:  -Oh, no--
 KNIGHTS:  Charge!
     [squeak squeak]
 KNIGHTS:  Aaaaugh!  Aaaugh! etc.
 KNIGHTS:  Run away!  Run away!
 TIM:  Haw haw haw.  Haw haw haw.  Haw haw.
 ARTHUR:  Right.  How many did we lose?
 ???:  Gawain.
 ???:  Hector.
 ARTHUR:  And Boris.  That's five.
 GALAHAD:  Three, sir.
 ARTHUR:  Three.  Three.  And we'd better not risk another frontal

   assault, that rabbit's dynamite.
 ROBIN:  Would it help to confuse it if we run away more?
 ARTHUR:  Oh, shut up and go and change your armor.
 GALAHAD:  Let us taunt it!  It may become so cross that it will
make a mistake.
 ARTHUR:  Like what?
 GALAHAD:  Well,....
 ARTHUR:  Have we got bows?
 ???:  No.
 LAUNCELOT:  We have the Holy Hand Grenade.
 ARTHUR:  Yes, of course!  The Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch!  'Tis
one of the sacred relics Brother Maynard carries with him!  Brother
Maynard! Bring up the Holy Hand Grenade!
     [singing]
     How does it, uh... how does it work?
 ???:  I know not, my liege.
 ???:  Consult the Book of Armaments!
 MAYNARD:  Armaments, Chapter Two, Verses Nine to Twenty-One.
 BROTHER:  "And Saint Atila raised the hand grenade up on high,
saying, 'Oh, Lord, bless this thy hand grenade that with it thou
mayest blow thy enemies to tiny bits, in thy mercy.'  And the Lord
did grin, and people did feast upon the lambs, and sloths, and
carp, and anchovies, and orangutans, and breakfast cereals, and
fruit bats, and large --"
 MAYNARD:  Skip a bit, Brother.
 BROTHER:  "And the Lord spake, saying, 'First shalt thou take out
the Holy Pin.  Then, shalt thou count to three, no more, no less.

Three shalt be the number thou shalt count, and the number of the
counting shalt be three.  Four shalt thou not count, nor either
count thou two, excepting that thou then proceed to three.  Five is
right out.  Once the number three, being the third number, be
reached, then lobbest thou thy Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch towards
thou foe, who being naughty in my sight, shall snuff it.'"
 MAYNARD:  Amen.
 ALL:  Amen.
 ARTHUR:  Right!  One... two... five!
 ???:  Three, sir!
 ARTHUR:  Three!
     [boom]
  Scene 22

 ???:  There!  Look!
 LAUNCELOT:  What does it say?
 GALAHAD:  What language is that?
 ARTHUR:  Brother Maynard, you're our scholar!
 MAYNARD:  It's Aramaic!
 GALAHAD:  Of course!  Joseph of Aramathea!
 LAUNCELOT:  Course!
 ???:  What does it say?
 MAYNARD:  It reads, 'Here may be found the last words of Joseph of

   Aramathea.  He who is valiant and pure of spirit may find the
Holy Grail in the Castle of uuggggggh'.
 ARTHUR:  What?
 MAYNARD: '... the Castle of uuggggggh'.
 BEDEMIR:  What is that?
 MAYNARD:  He must have died while carving it.
 LAUNCELOT:  Oh, come on!
 MAYNARD:  Well, that's what it says.
 ARTHUR:  Look, if he was dying, he wouldn't bother to carve
'aaggggh'. He'd just say it!
 MAYNARD:  Well, that's what's carved in the rock!
 GALAHAD:  Perhaps he was dictating.
 ARTHUR:  Oh, shut up.  Well, does it say anything else?
 MAYNARD:  No.  Just, 'uuggggggh'.
 LAUNCELOT:  Aauuggghhh.
 ???:  Aaauggh.
 BEDEMIR:  You don't suppose he meant the Camauuuugh?
 ???:  Where's that?
 BEDEMIR:  France, I think.
 LAUNCELOT:  Isn't there a Saint Aauuuves in Cornwall?
 ARTHUR:  No, that's Saint Ives.
 LAUNCELOT:  Oh, yes.  Saint Iiiives.
 SEVERAL:  Iiiiives.
 BEDEMIR:  Oooohoohohooo!
 LAUNCELOT:  No, no, aauuuuugh, at the back of the throat.

Aauuugh.
 BEDEMIR:  No, no, no, oooooooh, in surprise and alarm.
 LAUNCELOT:  Oh, you mean sort of a aaaagh!
 BEDEMIR:  Yes, but I-- Aaaaagh!
 ???:  Oooh!
 ???:  Oh, no!
     [roar]
 MAYNARD:  It's the legendary Black Beast of aaauuugh!
 ARTHUR:  Run away!
 ALL:  Run away!  Run away!
     [roar]
 NARRATOR:  As the horrendous Black Beast lunged forward, escape

  for Arthur and his knights seemed hopeless.  When, suddenly, the

   animator suffered a fatal heart attack.  [ulk]  The cartoon
peril was no more.  The Quest for Holy Grail could continue.
  Scene 23

 ARTHUR:  There it is!  The Bridge of Death!
 ROBIN:  Oh, great.
 ???:  Look!
 ARTHUR:  There's the old man from Scene 24!
 BEDEMIR:  What is he doing here?
 ARTHUR:  He is the keeper of the Bridge of Death.  He asks each

  traveller five questions--
 ???:  Three questions.
 ARTHUR:  Three questions.  He who answers the five questions--
 ???:  Three questions.
 ARTHUR:  Three questions may cross in safety.
 ROBIN:  What if you get a question wrong?
 ARTHUR:  Then you are cast into the Gorge of Eternal Peril.
 ROBIN:  Oh, I won't go.
 ???:  Who's going to answer the questions?
 ARTHUR:  Sir Robin!
 ROBIN:  Yes?
 ARTHUR:  Brave Sir Robin, you go.
 ROBIN:  Hey!  I've got a great idea.  Why doesn't Launcelot go?
 LAUNCELOT:  Yes, let me go, my liege.  I will take him
single-handed. I shall make a feint to the north-east--
 ARTHUR:  No, no, hang on hang on hang on!  Just answer the five

  questions--
 ???:  Three questions.
 ARTHUR:  Three questions as best you can.  And we shall watch...
and pray.
 LAUNCELOT:  I understand, my liege.
 ARTHUR:  Good luck, brave Sir Launcelot.  God be with you.
 KEEPER:  Stop!  Who would cross the Bridge of Death must answer me

   these questions three, 'ere the other side he see.
 LAUNCELOT:  Ask me the questions, bridge-keeper.  I'm not afraid.
 KEEPER:  What is your name?
 LAUNCELOT:  My name is Sir Launcelot of Camelot.
 KEEPER:  What is your quest?
 LAUNCELOT:  To seek the Holy Grail.
 KEEPER:  What is your favorite color?
 LAUNCELOT:  Blue.
 KEEPER:  Right.  Off you go.
 LAUNCELOT:  Oh, thank you.  Thank you very much.
 ROBIN:  That's easy!
 KEEPER:  Stop!  Who approaches the Bridge of Death must answer me

   these questions three, 'ere the other side he see.
 ROBIN:  Ask me the questions, bridge-keeper.  I'm not afraid.
 KEEPER:  What is your name?
 ROBIN:  Sir Robin of Camelot.
 KEEPER:  What is your quest?
 ROBIN:  To seek the Holy Grail.
 KEEPER:  What is the capital of Assyria?
 ROBIN:  I don't know that!  Auuuuuuuugh!
 KEEPER:  Stop!  What is your name?
 GALAHAD:  Sir Galahad of Camelot.
 KEEPER:  What is your quest?
 GALAHAD:  I seek the Holy Grail.
 KEEPER:  What is your favorite color?
 GALAHAD:  Blue.  No yel--  Auuuuuuuugh!
 KEEPER:  Heh heh.  Stop!  What is your name?
 ARTHUR:  It is Arthur, King of the Britons.
 KEEPER:  What is your quest?
 ARTHUR:  To seek the Holy Grail.
 KEEPER:  What is the air-speed velocity of an unladen swallow?
 ARTHUR:  What do you mean?  An African or European swallow?
 KEEPER:  What?  I don't know that!  Auuuuuuuugh!
 BEDEMIR:  How do know so much about swallows?
 ARTHUR:  Well, you have to know these things when you're a king
you know.
  Scene 24

 ARTHUR:  Launcelot!  Launcelot!  Launcelot!
 BEDEMIR:  Launcelot!  Launcelot!
 ARTHUR:  Launcelot!  Launcelot!
 BEDEMIR:  Launcelot!  Launcelot!
     [angels singing]
 ARTHUR:  The Castle Aggh.  Our quest is at an end!  God be
praised! Almighty God, we thank Thee that Thou hast [something]
safe [something] the most-
     [twong  baaaa]
     Jesus Christ!
 GUARD:  'Allo, daffy English kaniggets and Monsieur Arthur-King,
who is afraid of a duck, you know!  So, we French fellows out-wit
you a second time!
 ARTHUR:  How dare you profane this place with your presence!?  I
command you, in the name of the Knights of Camelot, to open the
doors of this sacred castle, to which God himself has guided us!
 GUARD:  How you English say, I one more time-a unclog my nose in
your direction, sons of a window-dresser!  So, you think you could

out-clever us French folk with your silly knees-bent running about

in dancing behavior! I wave my private parts at your aunties, you

heaving lot of second hand electric donkey bottom biters.
 ARTHUR:  In the name of the Lord, we demand entrance to this
sacred castle!
 GUARD:  No chance, English bedwetting types.  I burst my pimples
at you and call your door opening request a silly thing.  You
tiny-brained wipers of other people's bottoms!
 ARTHUR:  If you do not open this door, we shall take this castle
by force!
     [splat]
     In the name of God and the glory of our--
     [splat]
     Right!  That settles it!
 GUARD:  Yes, this time and [something] any more or we fire arrows
at the tops of your heads and make castanets out of your testicles
already!  Ha ha!
 ARTHUR:  Walk away.  Just ignore them.
 GUARD:  No, remain ??? illegitimate faced buggerfuls!  And, if you
think you got nasty taunting this time, you ain't heard nothing
yet!  Daffy English kaniggets!  Thpppt!
 ARTHUR:  We shall attack at once!
 BEDEMIR:  Yes, my liege!
 ARTHUR:  Stand by for attack!
  [ ending nonsense ]



# Monty Python and the Holy Grail
- M0nti Pyth0n lk den H0lie Grailen
- R0tern nik Akten Di
- Wik
- Als0 wik
- Wi n0t trei a h0liday in Sweden this yer?
- See the l0veli lakes
- The wonderful teleph0ne system
- And mani interesting furry animals
-       The Producers would like to thank The Forestry Commission
        Doune Admissions Ltd, Keir and Cowdor Estates, Stirling
        University, and the people of Doune for their help in the
        making of this film.
        The Characters and incidents portrayed and the names used
        are fictitious and any similarity to the names, characters,
        or history of any person is entirely accidental and
        unintentional.
                        Signed RICHARD M. NIXON
- Including the majestic m00se
- A M00se once bit my sister ...
- No realli!  She was Karving her initials on the m00se
  with the sharpened end of an interspace t00thbrush given
  her by Svenge - her brother-in-law - an Oslo dentist and
  star of many Norwegian m0vies:  "The H0t Hands of an Oslo
  Dentist", "Fillings of Passion", "The Huge M0lars of Horst
  Nordfink".
- We apologise for the fault in the
  subtitles.  Those responsible have been
  sacked.
- Mynd you, m0se bites Kan be pretty nasti...
- We apologise again for the fault in the subtitles.  Those
  responsible for sacking the people who have just been sacked
  have been sacked.
- M00se trained by        TUTTE HERMSGERV0RDENBR0TB0RDA
- Special M00se Effects   OLAF PROT
  M00se Costumes          SIGGI CHURCHILL
  M00se Choreographed by  HORST PROT III
  Miss Taylor's M00ses by HENGST DOUGLAS-HOME
  M00se trained to mix
  concrete and sign com-
  plicated insurance
  forms by                JURGEN WIGG
  M00ses' noses wiped by  BJORN IRKESTOM-SLATER WALKER
- Large m00se on the left
  half side of the screen
  in the third scene from
  the end, given a thorough
  grounding in Latin,
  French and "O" Level
  Geography by            BO BENN
- Suggestive poses for the
  M00se suggested by      VIC ROTTER
  Antler-care by          LIV THATCHER
- The directors of the firm hired to
  continue the credits after the other
  people had been sacked, wish it to
  be known that they have just been
  sacked.
- The credits have been completed
  in an entirely different style at
  great expense and at the last
  minute.
- Executive Producer
        JOHN GOLDSTONE & "RALPH" The Wonder Llama
  Assisted by
        EARL J. LLAMA
        MIKE Q. LLAMA III
        SY LLAMA
        MERLE Z. LLAMA IX
        Directed By
        40 SPECIALLY TRAINED
        ECUADORIAN MOUNTAIN LLAMAS
        6 VENEZUELAN RED LLAMAS
        142 MEXICAN WHOOPING LLAMAS
        14 NORTH CHILEAN GUANACOS
        (CLOSELY RELATED TO THE LLAMA)
        REG LLAMA OF BRIXTON
        76000 BATTERY LLAMAS
        FROM "LLAMA-FRESH" FARMS NEARE PARAGUAY
        and
        TERRY GILLIAM AND TERRY JONES

Eighteen combat-ready special forces, wearing assault black,
jump packs and combat gear, stare down the deep end of a
greasy ramp into the night sky.  Village lights flicker 19,000
feet below.

The STRIKE FORCE LEADER signals to his team.

Without a moment's hesitation, they dive into the darkness
and plummet toward earth.

EXT. MANSION - NIGHT

A military GUARD, old Soviet-style uniform, rounds the corner
of the large estate toting an AK-47.

A red laser dot appears briefly on his forehead and, after a
beat, the red dot seems to bleed.  The Guard collapses dead.
Two other GUARDS are dispatched with single, silenced shots.

A Strike Team member at a junction box awaits a signal.

Through infra-red binoculars the strike Force Leader watches
his assault troops as they take positions.

                     STRIKE FORCE LEADER
              (into headset/in
              Russian)
         GO!

On the estate - as the power goes out.  The team on the
mansion's front porch pops the door and pours in.

INT. MANSION - NIGHT

FOLLOWING - the FIVE TEAM MEMBERS as they rush a stairway in
phalanx formation.  They nearly knock over an old lady, who
in turn lets out a blood curdling scream.

UPSTAIRS CORRIDOR -

The team kicks open a door.  Rushes into the room.

INT. BEDROOM -

Assault weapons pointed at the bed.  The soldiers yank back
bedsheets to reveal IVAN STRAVANAVITCH, a middle-aged man
and his half-naked 18-year-old concubine.

                     SOLDIER
              (in Russian)
         Get up, now!  Up!

The soldiers pull Stravanavitch to his feet and haul him out
of the room.

FOLLOWING -  As they push down the hallway.

MANSION SECURITY GUARDS rally with haphazard gunfire.

Out come the strike force's flash-bang grenades.  Exploding
everywhere, disorienting Stravanavitch's men.

EXT. FIELD - NIGHT

Signal flares burn as a helicopter descends on the position.
The Strike Team evacuates across the field and forces a
struggling Stravanavitch into the low-hovering copter.

The commandos swiftly board the craft as a handful of
Stravanavitch's guards break into the clearing.  They open
fire.

And the mounted machine guns on the helicopter return.

One of the Strike Team members takes a bullet to the neck.
He's' pulled by his comrades into the chopper as it lifts
into the sky, its guns spitting lead...

STRIKE FORCE LEADER (V.0.)

Archangel, this is Restitution.

Archangel, this is Restitution.  The package is wrapped.
Over.

                     VOICE (V.0. RADIO)
         Roger, Restitution.  We are standing
         by for delivery.

                     FADE TO BLACK
         The SOUNDS of a dinner banquet.
         Forks clanking against plates and
         the din of a hundred conversations,
         broken by...

The DING, DING, DING of a SPOON tapping against a wine glass.

SUPER TITLE:   "MOSCOW - THREE WEEKS LATER

FADE IN:

INT. BANQUET ROOM - NIGHT

Hundreds of men and women in formal evening wear sit at round
banquet tables.  A HUSH falls over the guests as the DINGING
continues.  All attention turns to the front table.

A rotund, silver haired-man in his late sixties rises and
sidles past U.S. and Russian flags up to the podium
microphone.  He is STOLI PETROV, President of Russia.

                     PETROV
              (in Russian)
         Thank you for joining us this evening.

Petrov's harsh Russian issues through the room.  But over it
we hear a young woman's voice translating.

                     TRANSLATOR (V.0.)
         Tonight we are honored to have with
         us a man of remarkable courage, who,
         despite strong international
         criticism...

AT THE FRONT TABLE -

A translator's words ring in the earpiece of a handsome man
in his mid-forties.  Worry lines crease his forehead and the
touch of gray at his temples attest to three very difficult
years in office.

This man is JAMES MARSHALL, and he is the PRESIDENT of the
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.  He busily makes last minute changes
to his speech.

                     TRANSLATOR
              (V.0. earpiece)
         Has chosen to join our fight against
         tyranny in forging a new world
         community.  Ladies and gentlemen, I
         give you the President of the United
         States of America...

Mr. President.

Thunderous applause as Marshall rises and approaches the
podium.

At the back of the room, DOHERTY, a senior policy adviser
whispers to the President's Chief of Staff ED SHEPHERD...

                     DOHERTY
         Maybe we should consider running him
         for re-election instead of the U.S.

The applause dies as Marshall begins to speak.

                     MARSHALL
              (in Russian with
              subtitles)
         Good evening and thank you.  First I
         would ask you to join me in a moment
         of silence for the victims of the
         Turkmenistan massacres.

The room remains silent a few beats.  Most guests respectfully
bow their heads.

Marshall begins again, but this time in English.  The young
woman translates simultaneously for the Russian audience.

                     MARSHALL
         As you know, three weeks ago American
         Special Forces, in cooperation with
         the Russian Republican Army, secured
         the arrest of Turkmenistan's self-
         proclaimed dictator, General Ivan
         Stravanavitch, whose brutal sadistic
         reign had given new meaning to the
         word horror.  I am proud to say our
         operation was a success.

Applause from the audience.  Marshall turns the page on his
speech.

                     MARSHALL
         And now, yesterday's biggest threat
         to world peace... today awaits trial
         for crimes against humanity.

During the applause, Marshall pulls a page from the speech,
folds it and slides it into his pocket.  He removes his
glasses and looks out into the crowd.  His tone becomes more
personal.

He's not reciting the speech anymore.

                     MARSHALL
         What we did here was important.  We
         finally pulled our heads out of the
         sand, we finally stood up to the
         brutality and said "We've had enough.
         Every time we ignore these atrocities--
         the rapes, the death squads, the
         genocides- every time we negotiate
         with these, these thugs to keep them
         out of gig country and away from gig
         families, every time we do thiS.E.
         we legitimize terror.

Terror is not a legitimate system of government.  And to
those who commit the atrocities I say, we will no longer
tolerate, we will no longer negotiate, and we will no longer
be afraid.  It's your turn to be afraid.

Applause rolls through the crowd.

EXT. MOSCOW INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - NIGHT

Sprawling terminals spread out to runways like tentacles.

ON THE TARMAC -

Bathed in floodlights, perched majestically on the runway,
dwarfing nearby commuter and military jets, stands...

                     AIR FORCE ONE
         The President's own Boeing 747-200,
         dubbed "the flying White House".
         The distinctive royal blue stripe
         over a thin gold line tapers to a
         tail adorned with the American flag
         and the Presidential Seal Secret
         Service agents and Marines stand
         guard at the aircraft's perimeter.

A RUSSIAN NEWS VAN emerges from the darkness and pulls to a
stop by a Secret Service barricade.

SPECIAL AGENT GIBBS greets the Russian news team that emerges.

                     GIBBS
         Gentlemen, welcome to Air Force One.

Please present your equipment to Special Agent Walters for
inspection.

The news team's segment producer, a crusty old Russian named
KORSHUNOV raises his big bushy eyebrows.

                     KORSHUNOV
         We've already been inspected.

                     GIBBS
         Sir, this plane carries the President
         of the United States.

Though we wish to extend your press service every courtesy,
you will comply with our security measures to the letter.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Of course.  I'm sorry.

Korshunov and the FIVE MEMBERS of his news crew present their
video cameras, sound equipment and supplies to Special Agent
WALTERS for inspection.  Secret Service DOGS sniff through
the baggage.

                     GIBBS
         Please place your thumbs on the ID
         pad.

Korshunov puts his thumb on the ID pad of a portable computer.

The computer matches up his thumbprint with his dossier and
photograph.  "CLEARED" flashes on the computer screen.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

The President, walking with his entourage.

                     SHEPHERD
         *                     CBS said they'll
         give us four minutes.  They thought
         the Russian was a nice touch.

                     MARSHALL
         I always wondered if my freshman
         Russian class would come in handy.

                     DOHERTY
         Sir, you threw out page two.

                     MARSHALL
         Goddamn right I did.  I asked for a
         tough-as-nails speech and you gave
         me diplomatic bullshit.  What's the
         point in having a speech if I have
         to ad-lib?

                     DOHERTY
         It was a good ad-lib, sir.

                     MARSHALL
         Thanks.  Wrote it last night.

The President exits the building and enters his limousine.

EXT. TARMAC - AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

Walters hands the bags back to the Russians.

                     WALTERS
         Equipment checks out.

A striking woman in her early thirties descends Air Force
One's stairway.  MARIA MITCHELL.

                     GIBBS
         Gentlemen, this is Maria Mitchell.

Press Relations for the Presidential Flight Office.  She'll
take you from here.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Ms.  Mitchell.  So nice to finally
         meet you in person.

                     MITCHELL
         The President and I were delighted
         that we could accommodate you.  Now
         if you're all cleared?
              (Gibbs nods)
         You can follow me then.

They ascend into the belly of Air Force One.

                     MITCHELL
         *                    I'll be giving
         you a brief tour, then during the
         flight, two members of your crew
         will be allowed out of the press
         area at a time for filming.  You
         will have exactly ten minutes with
         the President and twenty with the
         crew...

EXT. STREETS OF MOSCOW, PRESIDENT'S MOTORCADE - NIGHT

Winding its way down narrow cobblestone streets onto a major
thoroughfare.

INT. PRESIDENTIAL LIMOUSINE - NIGHT

The limousine is packed with advisers, aides, military staff,
including LT. COL. PERKINS, the keeper of the NUCLEAR FOOTBALL
handcuffed to his wrist.  In the b.g. on the limo's television
set, the LARRY KING SHOW indulges in its normal banter.

Marshall wearily rubs his temples as he stifles a yawn.

                     SHEPHERD
         You wanna knock of f?

                     MARSHALL
         No, no.  I'm fine.  What did the
         Speaker say?

                     SHEPHERD
         He and the NRA don't like the wording.

                     DOHERTY
         Apparently taking uzis away from
         sixth graders isn't as popular as we
         thought it'd be.  Representative
         Taylor is working on a compromise.

                     MARSHALL
         Put together a score sheet.  I'll
         make some calls.

                     SHEPHERD
         With all due respect, sir, maybe you
         should give them this one.  Your
         numbers are still pretty low and you
         called in a lot of chips to nail
         Stravanavitch.

                     MARSHALL
         I might still have a few chips left.

                     SHEPHERD
         *                     We could always
         put you in a duck blind with a twelve
         gauge.  The second amendment types'll
         love that.

                     MARSHALL
         This is a crime bill, Shep.  Killing
         a couple ducks won't get it through
         committee.  Besides, Shep, I told
         you...  I don't shoot babies and I
         don't kiss guns.

                     SHEPHERD
         Other way around, sir.

                     MARSHALL
              (realizing what he
              said)
         Right... Christ I'm tired.  Do me a
         favor and keep me away from the press.

Marshall's watch alarm beeps and he automatically reaches
into his breast pocket, pulls out a medicine vial and downs
two pills with a coffee chaser.

On the T.V.

                     LARRY KING (T.V.)
         ... and your reaction to the
         President's trip to Moscow.  Good or
         bad?

Shepherd turns up the volume.

                     SHEPHERD
         This is the part I wanted you to
         see.

                     REP. DANFORTH (T.V.)
         Criminal.  One of our boys died in
         Marshall's little publicity stunt
         and for what?  So we could claim
         victory over another country's
         problems instead of our own?  And
         now he's got the nerve to prance
         around Moscow gloating, while that
         poor boy's family is left to bury
         him.  If I were Marshall, I'd be
         ashamed of myself.

                     LARRY KING
         There you have it.  Harsh words for
         the President from Michael Danforth,
         the Speaker of the House.

Marshall mutes the television.  A quiet moment.

                     SHEPHERD
         *                     My opinion.
         We can't let him get away with that
         kind of language.

Marshall considers.  Then decides.

                     MARSHALL
         It's bait.  Don't take it.

                     SHEPHERD
         Sir, the Speaker of the House attacked
         this administration on national
         television.  You can't afford to
         leave that hanging.

                     MARSHALL
              (ignoring Shepherd)
         Did we tape the Duke game?

                     AIDE
         It's waiting on the plane.  The ending
         was pretty...

                     MARSHALL
              (interrupting)
         Please don't tell me.  Just for once,
         *                     let me be
         surprised.

INT. AIR FORCE ONE, CORRIDOR, TRAVELING - NIGHT

Maria Mitchell escorts the Russians down the plane's length.
As they pass the galley, Maria motions up a set of stairs.

                     MITCHELL
         Up on the upper deck is the cockpit
         and the Mission Communication Center.
         The MCC, as we call it, can place
         clear and secure phone calls to
         anywhere on earth.  We're linked to
         a network of military and civilian
         satellites and ground stations.  We
         could run the country or run a war
         from there if we had to.

                     KORSHUNOV
         This is a remarkable aircraft.

                     MITCHELL
         You don't know the half of it.  Did
         you know this entire plane is shielded
         from radiation?  We could fly through
         a mushroom cloud completely unharmed
         if necessary.

                     KORSHUNOV
         A dubious distinction, no?

                     MITCHELL
         I guess it depends on your
         perspective.

They walk by several conference rooms, running down the
starboard side of the plane.

                     KORSHUNOV
         And all these rooms here?

                     MITCHELL
         Conference rooms, though some have
         other functions.  The one up front
         doubles as an emergency medical
         center.

Past the conference rooms, they walk by a small side room
where SECRETARIES work on computers, generating documents.

                     MITCHELL
         As you can see, back here's more
         like a regular plane.  Security and
         Secret Service take this cabin.
         You'll be in the rear with the press
         pool.

The REAR PRESS CABIN, just ahead of the rear galley and bank
of bathrooms.  A handful of disgruntled reporters feign sleep.

                     MITCHELL
         Here's a press kit.  I'll let you
         guys get comfortable and once we're
         airborne I'll be able to schedule
         the interviews.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Thank you.

Mitchell exits forward.  One of the reporters stirs and looks
up at the news team.  He groans.  Space is a premium back
here.

                     REPORTER
         You fellas win some sort of fly-with-
         POTUS contest?

                     KORSHUNOV
         Potus?  What is Potus?

                     REPORTER
         P.O.T.U.S. President Of The United
         States.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Ah, no.  We won nothing.  We are
         ITAR-TASS news service.

                     REPORTER
         Right.  Listen, this here... This is
         my row.  You'll have to sit over
         there.

Korshunov trades looks with his news team.

EXT. MOSCOW INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - NIGHT

The President's motorcade pulls up in front of Air Force
One.

INT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

The President and his entourage ascend from the lower deck
platform onto the main deck.  COL. DANIEL AXELROD, Air Force
One's pilot, snaps off a salute as he passes.

                     COL. AXELROD
         Welcome aboard, Mr. President.

                     MARSHALL
              (returns salute)
         Hey Danny.  How's it look tonight?

                     COL. AXELROD
         Glassy, sir.  Care to take the wheel?

                     MARSHALL
         You keep offering, one of these days
         I'll take you up on it.
              (to no one in
              particular)
         Rose and Alice back yet?

                     AIDE
         No, Mr. President.  The ballet ran
         late.  Their ETA is seventeen minutes.

Marshall nods as he pulls off his bow tie and enters his
stateroom.  Shepherd follows two steps behind.

                     SHEPHERD
         Mr. President?

Marshall halts Shepherd with a gesture.

                     MARSHALL
         Thirty seconds.

Shepherd nods and waits by the door.  Lt. Col. Perkins takes
a seat outside the Presidents stateroom and opens the latest
Tom Clancy thriller, using the nuclear football as a lap
desk.

INT. PRESIDENT'S STATEROOM - NIGHT

Marshall collapses on the couch, rubs his eyes, then closes
them.  A moment of peace in a breakneck day.

The knock at the door jars him.

                     MARSHALL
         Yes.

Shepherd enters.

                     SHEPHERD
         Can I at least issue a press release
         objecting to the Speaker's choice of
         wording?

President Marshall picks up one of the many phones in his
office.

                     MARSHALL
         I said it's not worth the fight.
              (into phone)
         Steward, please.

                     SHEPHERD
         We'll just say it was in bad taste.

*                               MARSHALL

Forget it, Shep.  The kid gave his life for his country and
the

Speaker's a bastard for turning him into a sound bite.  I'll
take the heat.  Understood?

                     SHEPHERD
         You give me ulcers.

                     MARSHALL
         That's my job.

A STEWARD enters the room.

                     STEWARD
         Mr. President?

                     MARSHALL
         Hey Mike.  Could you get me a
         Heineken?

                     SHEPHERD
         No, wait.  Get him one of the Russian
         beers.

The steward nods and disappears from the room.

                     SHEPHERD
         We've got those Russian news guys on
         board and it'll look good in the
         papers.

Marshall picks up a stack of policy reports.  Thumbs through
them.

                     MARSHALL
         C'mon Shep.  I've been eating borscht
         and drinking vodka for days.  Isn't
         that enough?
              (off paper)
         New home starts are down.

The steward arrives with the Russian beer.  Marshall takes a
swig.  He swallows hard.  Piss-water.  Marshall crosses to
his sink and pours the beer out.  He hands the bottle to the
steward.

                     MARSHALL
         Fill this with Heineken.

The steward nods...

                     STEWARD
         Yes, Mr. President.

AND SLINKS AWAY WITH THE BOTTLE. MARSHALL CATCHES HIMSELF --

                     MARSHALL
         I don't believe this.  I'm playing
         politics with a bottle of beer.  A
         goddamn bottle of beer.  I've been
         in office too long.

                     SHEPHERD
         Look on the bright side... if the
         polls don't change, you won't have
         that problem, sir.

Marshall picks up the phone again.

                     MARSHALL
         Yeah.  Put the Duke game on in my
         room.

INT. AFO'S MISSION COMMUNICATION CENTER - NIGHT

THREE Air Force SPECIALISTS man the elaborate communication
system occupying much of the upper deck.  Top-of-the-line
computers, communication systems, video decks, and satellite
receivers.

                     AIR FORCE SPECIALIST
         Yes, Mr. President.

He slides in a videotape and channels the feed to the *
president's stateroom.

INT. PRESIDENT'S STATEROOM - NIGHT

A monitor comes to life with a basketball game.

                     MARSHALL
              (to Shepherd)
         Defense and State Department in the
         conference room in one hour.  I want
         to review the Iraq situation.

                     SHEPHERD
         Yes, sir.

Shepherd exits as Marshall settles into his leather chair
and dives into work.  He punches a button on the speakerphone.

                     MARSHALL
         Get me the Housing Secretary...

EXT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

The Marine Guards snap to attention once again as the First
Lady's motorcade arrives.

ROSE MARSHALL, a self-assured woman with an aristocratic
gleam, alights from her limo.  She takes a few steps, then
turns, tapping her foot impatiently.

                     ROSE
         C'mon Alice, we're 20 minutes late.

Your father's gonna have a fit.

ALICE, the President's 13-year-old daughter, straggles out
of the car, rolling her eyes.

                     ALICE
         It's not like he hasn't made us wait
         a few times.

                     ROSE
         Well, you aren't the President, dear.

                     ALICE
         Yeah, no duh.

INT. MAIN DECK, AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

As the First Lady's entourage enters.

                     ROSE
         Why don't you go say hi?

Again, Alice rolls her eyes.

                     ROSE
         What is wrong with you tonight?
         Come here.

Rose pulls Alice aside.

                     ROSE
         You don't want to say hi to your
         father?

                     ALICE
         I'm sure he's busy.

                     ROSE
         Don't you even want to ask?

Alice toes her foot into the carpet as she releases an
exasperated sigh.  She is, in this moment, the patron saint
of know-it-all 13-year-old girls.  Alice waves toward the
Presidential Suite.

                     ALICE
         If I go over there to say hi to daddy
         President, Mike's going to tell me
         he's in a meeting and can't be
         disturbed.  Then when the plane starts
         to taxi, he'll come out and say "Hey,
         are you guys back?  Did you enjoy
         the ballet?"  But he'll be on his
         way to another meeting and won't
         wait for an answer.  Then you'll get
         pissed at him and he'll get pissed
         at you.  It's like you guys rehearse
         or something.

With the weight of the entire world on her shoulders, Alice

Collapses into one of the many leather chairs.  It seems to
swallow her.  JORY, a steward passes.

                     ALICE
         Hey Joey, how `bout a cocoa, double
         whip cream.

                     ROSE
         Alice...

                     ALICE
         Mom, just this once, give it a rest.

                     ROSE
         You're jet-lagged.  We'll talk about
         this back...

                     ALICE
         Back at The Fishbowl?

Alice eyes the swirl of Aides who are pretending to work
nearby.

But it's obvious that they're eavesdropping.  Alice smiles
and waves at them dramatically.

                     ROSE
         We'll talk at home.
              (beat)
         You know, most girls aren't as lucky
         as you.  For most girls seeing the
         Bolshoi ballet would be the experience
         of a lifetime.

                     ALICE
         I know, Mom.
              (sees the hurt in her
              mom's eyes and softens)
         It was great... really.

Rose nods, smiling a half-smile.  After a thoughtful beat,
Alice gets up and crosses to the Presidential suite.  She
exchanges words with the Aide standing outside the door and
comes back, covering her disappointment.

                     ALICE
         He's in a meeting.  He can't be
         disturbed.

                     ROSE
         I'm sorry, honey.

                     ALICE
         No, it's okay.  After all, he is the
         President, right?

Joey the steward hands her her cocoa with a wink and a smile.

Her eyes light up at the mound of whip cream on top.

                     ALICE
         When I write my memoirs I think I'll
         devote an entire chapter to the cocoa
         aboard Air Force One.

                     ROSE
         Your father never means to be so...

                     ALICE
         I know...
              (beat)
         But lotsa times I feel like it's me
         versus the world.  Some kid at school
         teases me and the same day a plague
         breaks out in Bangladesh.  I mean it
         doesn't take a genius to figure which
         is more important.

                     ROSE
         Some kids were teasing you?

                     ALICE
         That's not really the point.

A quiet pause, then...

                     ROSE
         You're right and I'll tell you a
         secret.  I know exactly how you feel.

                     ALICE
         Big secret.  You said the same thing
         to Newsweek.

The plane jolts forward as it begins to taxi.

                     ALICE
         We're taxiing.  Ready.  And... five...
         four... three.. two... one... Cue
         Daddy.

Alice points.  And as if on cue, Marshall exits from his
office and checks his watch.

                     ALICE
         Oooooh, I'm good.

                     MARSHALL
         Hey, you guys back already?

Alice nods.

                     MARSHALL
         How was...
              (thinks, then remembers)
         ...the ballet?

                     ALICE
              (theatrically)
         It was the experience of a lifetime.

                     MARSHALL
         How `bout a hug for the old man.

Alice rises and hugs her father.  A White House PHOTOGRAPHER
snaps off a few shots for the papers.  Alice makes a face at
them.  A second later, Shepherd comes up the corridor,
breaking up the pair.

                     SHEPHERD
         Mr. President... they're ready for
         you in the conference room.

                     MARSHALL
         Okay.  Hey, pumpkin, you'll tell me
         all about it later, right?

                     ALICE
         Sure.

As Marshall moves toward the conference room, he bends and
gives Rose a quick peck on the cheek.  It all reeks of
formality.

                     ROSE
         May I speak to you for a moment?

                     MARSHALL
         Can't it wait?

                     ROSE
         No, Mr. President.  It can't.

INT.  PRESIDENT'S OFFICE.

Rose shuts the door behind them.  As she starts to speak,
Marshall pulls her into a long passionate kiss.  Rose pulls
away.

                     ROSE
         Don't.  I know spin control when I
         feel it.

                     MARSHALL
         Rose, I don't have time for this.

I've gotta go stop a war.

                     ROSE
         For godsakes, Jim, slow down and
         stop acting like the little dutch
         boy.  Not even you can plug all the
         world's leaks.  Don't you think it's
         a sign you're pushing too hard when
         your daughter sees more of you on
         MTV news than in person.

                     MARSHALL
         She's a big girl.  She understands.

                     ROSE
         How do you know she understands?
         You haven't spent more than five
         minutes with her, or me, in weeks.

                     MARSHALL
         And when have I had five minutes?
         When I wake up in the morning and
         I'm already three hours behind
         Schedule.  What do you want me to
         do, Rose, tell the G7 to fuck off
         because I'm a family man?

                     (BEAT)
         I'm sorry. That wasn't fair.

                     ROSE
         No. It wasn't.

He takes her in his arms.

                     MARSHALL
         You know what?

                     ROSE
         What?

                     MARSHALL
         I miss you. And I miss her.

                     ROSE
         But that's the point, Jim. We're
         right here.

                     MARSHALL
         I wish it were that easy...

Long beat. He smiles at her, it's the same sweet smile that
won her heart, the same smile that got him elected. She
softens.

                     MARSHALL
         I'll make it up to you, I promise.

                     ROSE
         I should trust that promise? Because
         you know the voters are still waiting
         for that middle class tax cut.

                     MARSHALL
         This promise isn't subject to
         Congressional approval.

She smiles. The tension breaks.

                     ROSE
         How did your speech go?

                     MARSHALL
         Well, they aren't burning me in
         effigy. That's always a good sign.

They kiss again, this time for real. But... a knock on the
door.

                     SHEPHERD (0.5.)
         Mr. President.

Shepherd opens the door.

                     MARSHALL
         Look on the bright side, hon. Shep
         here thinks I'll be a one termer.

                     ROSE
         Shall I ask the Chief of Staff to
         schedule your daughter in?

                     SHEPHERD
         She is scheduled. Her school play's
         Tuesday night.

Rose rolls her eyes.

                     MARSHALL
         The First Lady was making a joke,
         Shep. I'll make some time, Rose. I
         promise.

Marshall heads for his meeting.

EXT. COCKPIT - NIGHT

Col. Axelrod and his co-pilot LT. COL. ARTHUR INGRAHAMS are
at the wheel.

RUSSIAN AIR TRAFFIC (V.0)

                     (THICK ACCENT)
         United States Air Force One, this is
         tower. It's an honor to clear you
         for immediate take-off on runway
         three.

                     COL. AXELROD
         Roger, Tower. And thank you for the
         hospitality.

Axeirod eases up the throttle and the four GE-F103 Turbofan
engines spring to life.

EXT. RUNWAY - NIGHT

A picture perfect take-off as Air Force One slides through
the moonlight and skates upward on a sheet of air.

EXT. AIR FORCE ONE, FLYING - AN HOUR LATER

Airborne in the midnight sky.

INT. AIR FORCE ONE, GALLEY - NIGHT

Aircraft engines drone.

CLOSE ON - A coffee pot pouring piping joe into a mug
emblazoned with ubiguitou Presidential Seal. The mug is placed
on a tray with a half-dozen other mugs and passed to a STEW.
He carries the tray down the corridor past passenger cabins.

Drowsiness has overtaken the plane. Many of the passengers
and aides are asleep. CNN plays On T.V. sets, entertaining
the few night owls and news junkies.

                     CNN REPORTER (T.V.)
         In an unusually aggressive speech,
         the President characterized the
         Stravanavitch regime as thugs whose
         brutality will no longer be tolerated.
         Meanwhile, in Turkmenistan,
         Stravanavitch's ouster has sent the
         country into turmoil.  Tens of
         thousands of refugees continue to
         huddle in U.N. safe havens, as rival
         Stravanavitch loyalists fight among
         themselves for control. But at least
         for the time being, the ethnic
         cleansing has been stopped.

Toward the front of the plane, the steward enters the
conference room.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - NIGHT

As the steward closes the door behind him, all background
noise disappears. We are in a sound shielded room. Even the
engines' drone cannot be heard.

The lights in the room are dim as MAJOR CALDWELL, a military
advisor, projects satellite photos of Iraqi military bases
onto a screen.

The steward serves coffee as unobtrusively as he can while
the meeting continues.

                     MAJOR CALDWELL
         Our KH-ll's took this one at 0100
         hours. What you see here is the
         mobilization of two mechanized
         brigades.

                     MARSHALL
         They've gotta be joking.

                     DOHERTY
         The Iraqi ambassador is claiming
         it's just an exercise.

                     MARSHALL
         An exercise in futility. Send the
         Nimitz back in.

                     MAJOR CALDWELL
         The northern border's gotten a bit
         hairy. Their MiGs are playing tag
         with our Tomcats and our boys are
         just itching to engage.

                     MARSHALL
         Tell our boys to cool their jets. I
         don't need `em creating policy for
         me.

We follow the steward as he slips out of the conference room
and back into the...

INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT

with a few coffees left on his tray. One of them is scooped
up by Gibbs as he passes, his nose is buried in a fax.

INT. SECRET SERVICE CABIN - NIGHT

Gibbs leans in the cabin.

                     GIBBS
         Hey Walters, you and Johnson come
         here a second. Reykjavik just sent
         the advance team report.

Special Agents Walters and JOHNSON rise and follow Gibbs
into an adjoining office.

INT. OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Gibbs closes the door behind the two agents. As Walters and
Johnson take their seats, Gibbs WITHDRAWS HIS WEAPON and...

SHOOTS each of the agents in THE BACK OF THE HEAD.

Silenced pistol. Blood all over the desk. Gibbs removes each
of the agent's weapons and slips them into his waistband. He
waits a few beats, takes a long sip of coffee, then exits
the office.

INT. SECRET SERVICE CABIN - NIGHT

As he passes through the cabin he takes a silent inventory.
Five other agents working, sleeping, on the phone.

INT. PRESS CABIN - NIGHT

Gibbs nods to Korshunov. Korshunov nods one of his men.
NEVSKY removes one of his videotapes, pops the front cover
exposing the tape. Across the face of the tape is a thin
strip of a rubbery substance. Nevsky pulls the strip up and
out, making a kind of fuse. He reaches for a pack of
matches... courtesy matches, sporting the Seal of the
President.

Nevsky nods and lights the fuse.

IN A RAPID SUCCESSION -

GIBBS tosses his two extra weapons to Korshunov's men, pivots
the corner and begins firing at his colleagues. The SECRET
SERVICE AGENTS try to get at their weapons, but Gibbs has
caught them completely off-guard.

Several silenced central nervous system shots (head and neck)
and the five agents slump back, their red blood cascading
down the creases of the fine Corinthian leather chairs.

Nevsky tosses the cassette up the corridor... smoke pours
out of it. Smoke screen.

BAZYLEV and ZEDECK catch the guns Gibbs tossed and hold them
on the reporters.

                     BAZYLEV
         UP! GET UP NOW!

Bazylev grabs the stunned reporters, yanking them into the
aisle.

                     BAZYLEV
         Walk in front of us. Go! Go! Go!

Human shields. A half dozen of them.

Behind the terrorists, one of the bathroom doors swings open.
A SECRET SERVICE AGENT emerges. Sees what's happening. Reaches
for his gun. ZEDECK fells him with a well placed unsilenced
GUN SHOT. SCREAMS ensue...

INT. FORWARD CABIN - NIGHT

A sleeping SECRET SERVICE AGENT bolts upright. HEARS MORE
SHOTS.

He springs up and moves toward the gunshots, his weapon drawn.

                     SECRET SERVICE AGENT
         SHOTS FIRED! SECURE BOY SCOUT!
              (screaming out and
              into his lapel mike)
         SHOTS FIRED! SHOTS FIRED!

INT. SECRET SERVICE CABIN - NIGHT

Bazylev and Zedeck lay down a suppressing fire outside the
door.

                     GIBBS
         Come on! Quickly.

Korshunov, Nevsky and VLAD follow Gibbs into the Secret
Service office. Gibbs opens a locker and pulls out a stash
of MP5 automatic assault rifles and bullet-proof vests.

Korshunov raises his bushy eyebrows in delight.

                     GIBBS
         The Secret Service believes in being
         prepared for any eventuality.

INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT

The Secret Service agent fights his way through the smoke to
a wall panel. Punches a red buttoned intercom.

INT. AIR FORCE ONE'S FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT

A red light on the security panel lights up...

                     SECRET SERVICE AGENT (V.0.)
         We have a code red, I repeat, code
         red. Shots fired onboard.

Cot. AXELROD Cabin/Flight Deck: Code Red Acknowledged...
Shit.

                     LT. CCL. INGRAHAMS
              (into headset
              microphone)
         Warsaw tower this is Air Force One.
         Declaring Emergency.

Axelrod toggles his headset to secure line.

                     COL. AXELROD
         Ranstein Air Base, this is Air Force
         One Heavy. We have a code red. Shots
         fired onboard, request priority
         redirect. Please acknowledge.

INT. RAMSTEIN AIR BASE, AIR TRAFFIC CONTHOL TOWER - NIGHT

SUPER - "RAMSTEIN AIR BASE, GERMANY"

Hunched over a control terminal, the AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLER
tracks Air Force One's radar image.

                     RAMSTEIN A.B. CONTROLLER
         Fuck me. GO WAKE THE GENERAL. NOW!

The WATCH OFFICER springs into action, picking up a phone.

                     RAMSTEIN A.B. CONTROLLER
         Air Force One Heavy, acknowledged.
         You are on our scope. Please state
         fuel remaining and souls onboard.

                     COL. AXELROD (RADIO)
         Sixty seven souls onboard, we're
         okay with fuel. Request secure
         military escort with emergency medical
         standing by.

                     RAMSTEIN A.B. CONTROLLER
         Air Force One Heavy, acknowledged.
         We are scrambling our fighters.

The controller hits a red button on his console. Sirens flare
up and klaxons wail across the base.

The controller looks down to his runways. In the light of
the moon he sees a half-dozen men rushing toward F-15 Eagles.

                     RAMSTEIN A.B. CONTROLLLR
         Call Berlin Tower. Not a plane lands
         or takes off within two hundred miles!
         Understood?

The once sleepy midnight control room cranks into full crisis
mode.

INT. AIR FORCE ONE, MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT

Pandemonium. GUNFIRE pops in the b.g. Air Force Specialists
try to get the word out.

AIR FORCE SPECIALIST

A.F. SPECIALIST #2

 General Greely? No sir, Interrupt her. This is       this
is Air Force One. We Air Force One with an        have a
code red. Shots emergency call.              have been fired.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - NIGHT

The conference room door bursts open and TWO SECRET SERVICE
AGENTS, weapons drawn, enter the room and run to Marshall.

The once quiet room floods with light. The sounds of a
gunfight and a blanket of smoke sweeps into the cabin.

                     MARSHALL
         What's going on?

                     SECRET SERVICE AGENT
         We're under attack.

                     MARSHALL
         Where's my family?

                     SECRET SERVICE AGENT
         We're handling it, sir.

The agents lift Marshall to his feet, and practically carry
him from the room, leaving the other high ranking officials
to scramble for themselves in a cacophony of shouts.

                     MARSHALL
         The launch codes! Who's protecting
         the football?

FORWARD CORRIDOR -

Perkins, carrying the nuclear football, ducks and weaves his
way down the corridor into the fray. He takes a bullet to
the shoulder, which fells him.

NEAR THE FORWARD GALLEY -

Alice is nearly trampled by agents responding to the gunfire.

One agent grabs her and shoves her into a bathroom.

                     SECRET SERVICE AGENT
         Don't open the door!

GUNFIRE pops all around her.

INT. CORRIDOR, REAR CABINS - NIGHT

Smoke, automatic weapons fire. Secret service agents battling
the terrorists. Aides, diplomats, crew and personnel caught
in the crossfire.

                     ZEDECK
         Down! Everybody down.

A spray of weapons fire overhead and everyone hits the floor.

                     ZEDECK
         STAY DOWN, PLACE YOUR HANDS BEHIND
         YOUR HEAD AND YOU WILL NOT BE SHOT!

INT. AIR FORCE ONE, FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT

RAMSTEIN A.B. CONTROLLER (RADIO)

Air Force One Heavy, you are cleared for priority divert,
all runways are clear.

                     LT. COL. INGRAHAMS
         Warsaw Tower has cleared local
         airspace.

                     COL. AXELROD
         Changing course heading to 276 point
         five. Dropping to twenty thousand
         feet.

Shots can be heard outside.

                     COL. AXELROD
         Ingrahams, make sure that door's
         locked.

                     LT. COL. INGRAHAMS
         Yes sir.

Ingrahams locks the cockpit door.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

Air Force One banks into a curve and descends through broken
clouds.

INT. PRESIDENTIAL STATEROOM - NIGHT

The sounds of gunfire have reached the the nose of the plane.

Rose peers out to see what's the matter. An armed Secret
Service agent runs toward her.

                     SECRET SERVICE AGENT
         Get back! Get back!

A spray of bullets mows him down. He collapses in the door
frame. Terrified, Rose tries to close the door, but the dead
agent is in the way.

INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Filled with smoke and gunfire. The agents rush the President
behind a forward bulkhead.

                     SECRET SERVICE AGENT
              (into mike)
         We have Boy Scout, traveling forward.

                     VOICE (OVER MIKE)
         Negative... negative... they're up
         here too.

                     SECRET SERVICE AGENT
         Roger. We're going to the chute.

Marshall looks up the hallway toward his stateroom.

                     MARSHALL
              (calling out)
         ROSE! ALICE!

DOWN THE CORRIDOR -

Gibbs fires.

HITS - One of the Secret Service agents in the shoulder.
Blood blossoms through his clothes but he winces it off.

                     SECRET SERVICE AGENT
         Come on, sir.

The Secret Service agents whisk the President to the front
stairwell. They pull up a floor panel, revealing stairs
descending toward the baggage deck.

INT. BATHROOM -

Alice, huddled atop the commode.

                     MARSHALL (O.S.)
         Alice!

                     ALICE
         Daddy...

Alice opens the door and rushes...

INTO THE CORRIDOR...

Tripping and falling over Joey, the steward. His dead eyes
swim in a pool of blood that was his face. Alice screams,
scrambling to her feet.

MID-PLANE CORRIDOR -

Perkins manages to push himself to his feet and stumbles
down the hall into the computer room. Terrorist SERGE spots
the nuclear football dangling from his wrist. He pursues.

INT. COMPUTER ROOM - NIGHT

Hysterical SECRETARIES feverishly dump classified documents
into a shredder, while Perkins struggles to open the black
leather briefcase handcuffed to his wrist.

Bullets tear up the doorknob lock arid SERGE kicks in the
door.

                     SERGE
         Down! Everyone down!

The Fawn Halls hit the floor as gunfire sprays overhead. But
Perkins swings around brandishing his sidearm. He opens fire
on Serge, but the bullets smack harmlessly against the SWAT
vest.

Serge returns fire, ripping up Perkins who collapses over
the shredder, and with his last bit of strength, he dumps
out the briefcase.

Papers containing NUCLE WAR STRATEGIES and MISSILE LAUNCH
CODES slide into the hungry Shredding machine. Perkins manages
a slight smile before he keels over dead, his duty fulfilled.
The shredded remains of the nuclear football rain over his
head like tickertape at a hero's parade.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

The pale moon catches shiny streaks of metal that descend
through the broken clouds. The Squadron of F-15 Eagles drops
into formation around Air Force One.

INT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT

Gun shots right Outside the cockpit door.

                     COT. CARLTON (RADIO)
         Air Force One, this is Squadron
         Commander Canton. You are now under
         escort. All airspace has been cleared.

                     COL. AXELROD
         This is Air Force One Heavy. I'm
         coming in full throttle. ETA to
         Ranstein eight minutes. We've got a
         war here, sir.

INT. COCKPIT F-LB EAGLE - NIGHT

Encased in a helmet, mask, and visor, Carlton watches the

flashes of gunfire in the dark windows of the plane.

COt. CARLTON Copy. Delta Force has been mobilized.

                     COT. AXELROD (V.0.)
         Roger that.

INT. LOWER DECK OF AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

Beneath the main cabin, the Secret Service agents run the
President through the forward baggage compartment and the
lower galley: a large room with compartments, storage freezers
and food preperation tables.

On the far side of the galley, the agents fling open a
hatchway and enter...

A NARROW GANGWAY - running between the lower galley and the
rear baggage hold, flanked on either side by the landing
gear bays.

They duck under wing supports until they come to a mesh
grating.

The uninjured agent lifts the grating revealing an ESCAPE
POD.

                     SECRET SERVICE AGENT
         Get in!

Marshall freezes.

                     SECRET SERVICE AGENT
         Get in, sir.

A second later gunfire rips Up the agent's face. The new
volley sends Marshall under the cover of a wing strut. The
second agent takes Position and returns fire. He quells the
incoming volley for a moment.

                     MARSHALL
         What about my family?

                     SECRET SERVICE AGENT #
         I have a family, too, sir. Now get
         in the fucking pod.

The firing begins again. Marshall struggles with the decision.

                     SECRET SERVICE AGENT #
         Mr. President... MR. PRESIDENT! You
         have to do this! The pod, on three.
         Ready?

The agent shoves in a fresh clip...

                     SECRET SERVICE AGENT
         One.

                     MARSHALL
         But...

                     SECRET SERVICE AGENT
              (cutting him off)
         Two... THREE. GO!

The agent combat-rolls into the open and fires. He advances
down the gangway acting as a shield for the president,
shooting blindly.  Marshall watches as he's hit repeatedly,
but it gives him the time he needs to dive for the pod.

REVERSE ANGLE - VLAD AND NEVSKY

behind the bulkhead. When the agent drops, Nevsky and Viad
rush down the gangway. They arrive at the closed pod just as
it begins to slide on its rails. They let loose dozens of
rounds from their MP55, but the bullets just plink off.

The pod-lock doors slide shut. The President is on his way
to safety.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

Small bay doors open in the belly of Air Force One, and a
human sized cannister drops from the bottom, its parachute
Opening instantly.

INT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT

A light flashes On the panel.

                     COT. AXELROD
              (into mike)
         Ramstein/Air Force One: Emergency
         pod has been deployed. I repeat,
         emergency pod has been deployed.

                     RANSTEIN A.B. CONTROLLER
         This is Ramstein. Acknowledged. We
         are picking up the homing beacon and
         deploying search and rescue.

                     COT. AXELROD
         Copy Ramstein. We are dropping to
         five thousand feet, beginning final
         approach.

INT. BAGGAGE DECK GANGWAY - NIGHT

                     ALICE (O.S.)
         Daddy? Dad?

Her voice comes closer, filled with choking fear and panic.
She rounds the corner and Nevsky catches her hair with a
vice-tight grip shoving his MP5 into the small of her back.

                     NEVSKY
         Your father has left you behind.

INT. PRESIDENTIAL STATEROOM - NIGHT

Korshunov kicks open the door.

                     ROSE
         NO!

Gunfire from ROSE, who holds the dead secret service agent's
weapon. She empties the clip at the doorway. Click, click.
No more bullets. Korshunov steps into the room, brandishing
his automatic, smiling. Rose backs against the wall and raises
her hands.

EXT. WHITE HOUSE LAWN - DAY

A Marine helicopte touches down on the greenway. Marines
salute and escort KATHERINE CHANDLER from the chopper'
interior to the South entrance of the White House. She is
the VICE PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

INT. AIR FORCE ONE, MISSION COMNUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT

Zedeck steps over the three dead Communications Specialists,
on his way to the cockpit door. Tries the door. It's locked.
He pounds on it.

                     ZEDECK
         Open! Now!

INT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT

Through the cockpit window, the glowing landing lights of
Ramstein Base are visible in the distance, cutting a wedge
through the German towns and fields.

Zedeck's pounding continues.

                     COT. AXELROD
         Ramatein, we are fifteen miles away
         on final approach. I'm coming in
         fast and will need every inch of
         runway.

RAMSTEIN A.B. CONTROLLER (V.0.)

Copy, Air Force One. Wind is twelve knots from the east.
Tactical and emergency are in position.

EXT. RANSTEIN AIR FIELD - NIGHT

Rescue vehicle sirens gyre in the darkness. A team of black-
faced commandos unload from troop truck. Snipers take position
atop rescue vehicles, barracks, and the control tower.

High-powered rifles with infra-red scopes.

INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT

Zedeck aims his MP5 at the flight door. Fires off a dozen
rounds. Nickel sized indentations blossom across the steel
surface.

INT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT

Dull thuds of bullet impacts.

                     COT. AXELROD
         Let's get this crate on the ground.

They're some real good men waiting to help us.

EXT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

The plane sprouts landing gear as it descends over the city.

Coming in fast and low.

INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT

Gibbs shoves Zedeck aside. Produces a thumb-sized amount of
C-4.

INT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT

Final approach... the landing strip not far at all.

                     COL. AXELROD
         Almost there.

He raises his flaps. Air speed and altitude drop.

EXT. RAPISTEIN AIR FIELD - NIGHT

Spotters find Air Force One's navigation lights visible in
the sky, descending from the distant darkness. Followed by
the cluster of F-lSs.

INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT

Gibbs rolls out the C-4 like a kid making a snake in pottery
class. He presses it along the door seal.

INT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT

Altitude decreasing. 300 feet... 200 hundred feet...

The runway coming up to meet them.

EXT. RAMSTEIN AIR FIELD - NIGHT

As the entire airbase collectively holds its breath. Air
Force One's tires hover 50 feet above the ground... 40 feet...
30...

INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT

Gibbs raises his pistol. Aims at the C-4. Fires. BAM!

INT. COCKPIT - NIGHT

A BLINDING FLASH. The door blows in.

EXT. RANSTEIN AIR FIELD - NIGHT

The wheels touchdown.

INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT

Gibbs and Zedeck storm the cockpit.

RNT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT

Axeirod gropes at the plane's controls, trying to retain the
wheel. Gibbs dispatches Axeirod with one shot. Zedek is a
little messier with Ingrahams. But both pilot and co-pilot
slump over their controls.

EXT. RANSTEIN AIR FIELD - NIGHT

The taxiing Boeing 747 suddenly veers to the right cutting
across runways. Emergency vehicles give chase.

The plane bounces. Is airborne for a second. Touches down
again with a jolt.

INT. CORRIDOR - AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

Terrorists lead hostages to the conference room. Everyone is
bounced around, slamming against walls, spilling over chairs.

A MASTER SERGEANT seizes the opportunity and grabs for
Bazylev's gun, but Bazylev shoots him almost point blank.

                     BAZYLEV
         Keep moving!

INT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT

Chaos. Gibbs tries to pull Axelrod off the controls.

                     GIBBS
         Throttle up. Throttle up!

Zedek slams the throttle all the wa up. Spotlights and sirens
swirl outside the cockpit window.

EXT. RMMSTEIN FIELD - NIGHT

The Flying White House careens toward the barracks, then
edges toward a hangar. The jet engines strain to reach full
power.

INT. RAMSTEIN CONTROL TOWER - NIGHT

The controller stares down at the out-of-control plane.

                     RAMSTEIN A.B. CONTROLLER
         Aw Fuck. We're losing it!

INT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT

Gibbs pulls Axeirod's body out of the pilot's seat. Looks
out the cockpit window and sees...

                     A C-141 STARLIFTER
         in his path. A monstrous plane, every
         bit as big as Air Force One. Gibbs
         eases back on the wheel and the 747
         sluggishly responds, its nose creeping
         upward.

                     GIBBS
         Come on.

Adjusts the flaps...

EXT. RAMSTEIN AIRFIELD - NIGHT

Air Force One closes in on the Starlifter. She's struggling
off

the ground like some injured bird. The straining metal defies
gravity.

INT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT

Gibbs senses that he's too close. He pulls way back on the
stick, risks stalling her out... but the bird responds.

EXT. RAMSTEIN FIELD - NIGHT

Air Force One barely clears the Starlifter, the edge of her
wing just missing the top of the C-141's tail.

The sharpshooters, the emergency crews, the commandos from
Delta Force...  Nothing they can do but watch her rise out.
of sight.

INT. FLIGHT DECK - LATER

Gibbs and Zedeck. Gibbs checks over all the instruments.

                     GIBBS
         Okay, 30,000 feet. Give me my heading.

                     ZEDECK
         Bearing 110 point eight two.

Gibbs banks the plane into a curve, then activates the auto-
pilot.

                     GIBBS
         Call me if something changes.

                     ZEDECK
         That's it?

                     GIBBS
         To fly a 747 you need to know three
         things. How to take of f, how to
         land, and how to engage the autopilot.

INT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

SERIES OF SHOTS--

The terrorists, from every corner of the plane, lead the
stunned survivors, hands on heads, to the central conference
room.

As Korshunov walks Rose up the corridor, he meets up with
Gibbs, descending from the upper deck.

                     KORSHUNOV
         The rest of the secret service?

                     GIBBS
         Dead.

                     KORSHUNOV
         How many others killed?

                     GIBBS
         Nine.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Any of us?

Gibbs touches his bulletproof vest.

                     GIBBS
         No damages.

                     ROSE
         Where's my daughter?

                     GIBBS
         She's alive, ma'am, for the time
         being.

Rose allows herself a half-sob of relief.

                     ROSE
         And my husband?

                     GIBBS
         The secret service did their job,
         ma'am. The President is safely off
         the plane.
              (to Korshunov)
         But that still leaves us plenty to
         bargain with.

Eyes filled with hatred... Rose SLAPS Gibbs face.

                     ROSE
         Mr. Gibbs. You, of all people...

Gibbs doesn't react.

                     GIBBS
         Follow me, ma'am.

INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - DAY

High-tech maps and communications systems line the walls,
surrounding an austere main conference table. Laptop computers
and secure telephones by every seat. Side tables. Tele-type
machines spitting out classified information.

VICE PRESIDENT CHANDLER analyzes the projected course of Air
Force One on the tactical vid-map.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         We should have the President secure
         within minutes. Do we know who these
         terrorists are or where they're going?

GENERAL NORTHWOOD, head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff...

                     GENERAL NORTHWOOD
         General Greely says it looks like
         the Middle East.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         Does your office have anything to
         add, Mr. Dean?

National Security Advisor WALTER DEAN leans forward.

                     DEAN
         The garners believe that, given the
         scenario, there's an 86% chance that

we'll be dealing with a hostage situation and not an
assassination attempt. Not much else until there's more data.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         If we're dealing with an airborne
         hostage situation what's our
         procedure?

The Under-Secretary of Defense, THOMAS LEE, punches up a
scenario on the lap-top.

                     LEE
         Our only policy assumes the plane is
         on the ground. Our hands are
         completely tied while they're in the
         air.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         Okay, Gentlemen, we'll take no action
         until we confirm that the president
         is off the plane... Lee, go huddle
         with the D.O.D. I want an options
         paper on this in 20 minutes.

                     LEE
         Twenty minutes?

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         You heard me.
              (points to an aide)
         You. Congress and cabinet heads.

The aide nods and picks up a telephone.

                     AIR FORCE COLONEL
         Madame Vice-President?

Chandler turns toward the door. The Colonel enters the room,
holding a black briefcase identical to Perkins'.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         Yes?

                     AIR FORCE COLONEL
         National Command Authority. All
         previous launch codes have been
         cancelled. You're carrying the ball
         now.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         Thank you, Colonel. Have a seat.

EXT. GERMAN FARMLAND - NIGHT

A HUEY, flanked by a pair of APACHES, skims the surface of
wheat fields at maximum velocity.

INT. HUEY COCKPIT - NIGHT

The pilot checks his instruments. He's honing in on a signal.

EXT. GERMAN FARKD - NIGHT

The swirling spotlights of the Apaches finally illuminate
the Seal of the President atop the EMERGENCY DEPLOYMENT POD.

The Huey drops in for a landing and a half dozen Army Rangers
in full combat gear deploy to the pod. They open it.

But.........

IT'S EMPTY.

INT. BAGGAGE DECK GANGWAY - NIGHT

Bruised and battered, some blood smeared across his tuxedo
shirt... PRESIDENT JAMES MARSHALL lowers himself from one of
the overhead wing struts.

He emerges into the bowels of Air Force one.

He stands quietly a moment, listening... for footsteps, for
gunfire. All quiet except for the whine of the jet engines.

He tak9s a moment to think. Considers his situation. His
eyes find the dead agent who risked his life so he could
make it to the pod. He trots down the gangway toward the
lower galley.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

Air Force One hovers atop billowy peaks. The smaller F-15s
cluster around her in a loose formation.

FIGHTER PILOT #1 (0.5. RADIO)

Sir, isn't there something we can do besides escort?

COL. CARLTON (O.S. RADIO)

Like what, son... shoot our own plane down?

                     FIGHTER PILOT #1
         No sir. I just wish...

                     COL. CARLTON
         Roger. We all wish... Now shut the
         fuck up and escort.

INT. LOWER GALLEY - NIGHT

Marshall looks around for a weapon... half-full coffee pot,

stove, walk-in freezer, plates and silverware. Marshall picks
up a butcher knife.

INT. CORRIDOR, AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

Nevsky and Bazylev guard the conference room door as Korshunov
and Vlad enter. Nevsky hands Korshunov a copy of the plane's
manifest.

                     NEVSKY
         Every weapon and every person is
         accounted for.

Korshunov nods and enters the room.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - NIGHT

Korshunov surveys the hostages. Viad covers them at gunpoint.

Rose holds Alice, comforting her.  shepherd, Doherty, Aides,
Advisors, Crew... Fifty of them huddle like sardines.

The plane's doctor administers to the wounded.

Korshunov stares down his captives.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Fear will keep you alive. Any one
         who is not afraid is bound to do
         something foolish, and bound to die.

             ROSE
 What do you want with us?

             KORSHUNOV
 Cooperation. If you try to escape,
 you will be met with automatic gunfire
 and a barricade of your comrade's
 bodies will prevent you from exiting.
 Good day.

Korshunov exits, with Viad backing out behind him. Leaving
the hostages alone. The sound of the door locking.

A mournful beat. Everyone looks at each other and the dead
and wounded victims of this heinous act...

Hushed conversation breaks out all over the room.

             DOHERTY
 This can't be happening. You just
 don't pull this shit with the United
 States. You just don't.

             MAJOR CALDWELL
 Keep your heads.

Caldwell paces, looks around the room.

             SHEPHERD
 Mrs. Marshall, are you okay?

             ROSE
 We're alive.

             SHEPHERD
 That's all that matters. Thank god
 the President got of f the plane.

             ROSE
 Yes... thank God.
      (to caldwell)
 You there... Caidwell, right? What's
 on your mind?  caldwell takes a beat,
 then crosses to Rose and Shepherd.

             MAJOR CALDWELL
      (hushed)
 I don't want to get anybody here
 excited, but if we can get out of
 this room, I can get us to safety.

             SHEPHERD
 We're thirty five thousand feet up.

             MAJOR CALDWELL
 Yes, sir, that's a problem, but if
 we can somehow get to a lower
 altitude, the rear loading ramp on
 the baggage deck is equipped with
 parachutes in case of an engine
 failure. Now we can either wait for
 a political resolution, or try to
 resolve this thing ourselves.

             DOHERTY
 You're goddamn right we can resolve
 this ourselves. We'll negotiate.

             SHEPHERD
 You know the President's policy.

             DOHERTY
 The President isn't here.

             ROSE
 Right now we are an enormous liability
 to the United States. We can't just
 sit and do nothing.

INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT

The terrorists move toward the nose of the plane leaving
Nevsky to guard the conference room.

INT. BAGGAGE HOLD - NIGHT

President Marshall reaches the front stairway. Cautiously
climbs to the main cabin. As he reaches the top stairs, he
hears Russian conversation approaching. He ducks back into
the stairwell.

He can't see them, but he can hear them.

The terrorists pass within a few feet as they ascend to the
Mission Communications Center on the upper deck.

Marshall waits a few beats, listens to the silence. Then re-
mounts the stairs and almost runs into the back of...

                     VIAD
         Standing guard, facing the opposite
         direction.

Marshall FREEZES... looks past Viad down the corridor where
Nevsky guards the main conference room floor.

Unaware of Marshall, Viad reaches into his pocket and pulls
out a cigarette. Lights it. On the first puff he feels a
presence behind him.

VLAD slowly turns around...

Nothing there.

He smiles at his jittery nerves, turns back round.

REVERSE ANGLE -

Over Vlad's shoulder...

MARSHALL, flattened behind the edge of the galley divider.
He creeps away from Vlad toward the Presidential Suite...
stepping gingerly over dead secret service agents.

INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER -

*       Korshunov pulls a handkerchef from his breast pocket
and wipes the blood from a telephone headset.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Proceed.

Gibbs works the communications board, dialing in a series of
numbers. Telephone ringing...

INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - DAY

A map of Air Force One's flight trajectory is displayed on
the rear screen. Moscow to Berlin and back toward the Black
Sea.

The assembled brass listens as Korshunov's voice slithers
off the speaker phone.

                     KORSHUNOV (SPEAKER)
         ...the Chief of Staff, the First
         Lady, and the First Daughter.  Our
         demands are simple. Arrange the
         release of Ivan Stravanvitch.  Once
         our leader is returned to Turkuenistan
         soil, Air Force One and it's occupants
         will be allowed safe passage to
         Switzerland. You have one hour before
         we start killing hostages.

The phone clicks off. A silent beat in the room.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         Find that voice for me, I want to
         know who we're dealing with. And get
         President Petrov on the phone.

GENERAL CHARLES GREELY, head of the 87th Mechanized Air Wing,
the unit responsible for Air Force One, enters the room.

                     GENERAL GREELY
         Madame Vice-President, we just got
         word from Ramstein... The nod was
         UntiL Chandler stands.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         Empty?

                     GENERAL GREELY
         The President... he must still be
         onboard.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         Play back that call.

                     TECHNICAL OFFICER
         Yes, sir.

The Tech Officer indexes back on his computer.

                     KORSHUNOV (V.0. TAPE)
         The plane is under our command, and
         those we did not kill we hold as
         hostages, including the Chief of
         Staff, the First Lady, and the First
         Daughter.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         but not the President. Not the
         President.

A silent beat.

                     GENERAL NORTHWOOD
         He's dead then. They must have killed
         him.

                     DEAN
         We don't know that.

                     GENERAL NORTHWOOD
         Holding the president hostage is not
         something that slips your mind when
         you're making demands.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         And if he's dead? Do you really think
         they'd risk telling us?

                     DEAN
         There is a possibility we're
         overlooking.

All eyes turn to Dean.

                     DEAN
         When I ran Specops in `Nam, I ordered
         the destruction of a V.C.  munitions
         dump. During insertion, the plane
         was shot down and the entire team
         was killed, or so we thought. Two
         days later the dump

BLEW AND A WEEK AFTER THAT, THIS 19-

year-old kid, the pilot... he walks out of the jungle in
pretty bad shape. He survived the crash and finished the
mission... alone.

                     GENERAL NORTHWOOD
         Walter, if you have a point, make
         it.

                     DEAN
         That kid's name was Jim Marshall.

Most of the President's service record makes for dull reading
because most of what he did iarLZ ULirn.   History remembers
him for what he did aflar he got back to the states -- the
protests, the rallies -- But he was a soldier once, a damn
fine one.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         So what are you saying?

                     DEAN
         Maybe he's alive on that plane and
         those bastards don't even know it.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         Mr. Dean, may I remind you that the
         President is not 19 anymore.

INT. PRESIDENT'S STATEROOM - NIGHT

Marshall cautiously enters the room. Ready for action.

The room is empty, but it's been trashed by the firefight.

The sound of voices... coming from the Duke game which still
plays. Marshall hustles over to one of the secure phones.

It's dead. He tries the regular phone. Dead. Hangs it up in
disgust.

                     MARSHALL
         Goddamnit.

He steps on some glass. It's a broken frame holding a
PHOTOGRAPH of Alice and Rose. He picks up the photo and lays
it on a table.

He thinks for a beat... glances around the room, searching...

Then he crosses to the closet, opens it and begins rifling
through his wardrobe.

INT. MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM.

Caldwell stands on the conference table. The hostages have
removed one of the ceiling panels. Air supply ducts and
bundles of wiring run through the ten-inch space between the
ceiling and the shielding plates.

                     MAJOR CALDWELL
         This is a dead end.

Rose looks around the room. Hopeless. Her eyes land on the
carpet...

INT. CORRIDOR.

Marshall opens the stateroom door and slowly slides into the
corridor.

Vlad still faces the opposite direction.

Marshall creeps down the hallway, when...

Beep... Beep... Beep...

Marshall's watch alarm goes off.

Marshall dives for the nearest doorway. Vlad swings round to
see a figure slip into the senior staff cabin.

Vlad, unsure of what he saw., cautiously heads toward the
staff cabin. As he nears, he bends over a dead Secret Service
agent and pulls up the lifeless wrist revealing abeening
watch. It wasn't Marshall's after all. No matter. Vlad
continues to the staff Cabin.

INT. STAFF CABIN - NIGHT

Marshall frantically searches for something he can use as a
weapon. In the room: some video monitors, leather chairs and
phones. stainless steel cabinets run the length of one of
the walls.

Marshall throws the cabinet doors open, revealing...

A fully stocked MEDICAL CENTER... fold-down operating

table... high-intensity lights. Equipped to deal with any
medical emergency the president might encounter.

But too late. Vlad kicks the door open.

                     VLAD
         Get on the floor, now!

Marshall yanks down the operating table, and it smashes into
Vlad, knocking him down. Marshall lunges with his knife, but
Vlad OPENS FIRE. A HALF DOZEN ROUNDS pump into Marshall's
belly. He's thrown back against the wall, then slumps to the
floor.

Vlad approaches the crumpled body. Leans down to examine his
victim. He cups his hand under the man's chin and lifts his
head. Recognizes him.

                     VIAD
              (wonderment)
         The President.

But Marshall's eyes flash open.

                     MARSHALL
         That's right, asshole.

He springs, shoving the butcher knife under the flack jacket
and into Vlad's spleen. Vlad freezes, unsure of what just
happened.

Marshall is on his feet. Never letting go of the twisting
knife, he grabs Vlad by the back of the head and slams his
face against the mirror above the surgical scrub sink. The
mirror shatters and streams of blood erupt cn the terrorist's
face. The blood drips down into the white porcelain sink,
swirling into the drain.

Vlad elbows Marshall in the neck, stunning him momentarily.

He wipes the blood from his face, spins and hits Marshall
with a devastating right cross. Marshall reels back against
the wall, and Vlad follows, shoving the MP5 into Marshall's
throat. Marshall grabs the gun near the trigger...

*                               VLAD

Don't move or I'll blow your head off.

                     MARSHALL
         I don't think so.

Marshall presses the saftey button on the gun with his
forefinger, then knees Vlad in the balls. Viad pulls the
trigger repeatedly as he goes down, but nothing happens.

Instead he comes up swinging his gun butt against Marshall's
face. Like a bat hitting a baseball, it knocks Marshall into
the medical closet. The gun goes flying, skittering

UNDERNEATH A CABINET.

Marshall pulls himself up the shelves trying to keep his
legs from buckling. Vlad grabs some I.V. tubing and wraps it
around Marshall's neck. Marshall struggles for breath, clawing
at the tube.

HE SPOTS A DEFIBRILLATOR, REACHES AND SWITCHES IT ON. LOW-

pitched hum and beeping.

Marshall pulls his head forward, straining against the plastic
tubing. Then slams back into Vlad's head. Viad releases his
grip just for a moment...

The beeping becomes a steady whine.

... but a moment is all Marshall needs as he grabs the def
ib's CARDIAC PADDLES, turns, and SLAMS them on either side
of Vlad's head.

Vlad convulses from the shock for a full five seconds... his
eyeballs roll, his hair stands on end.  then he collapses to
the floor.

                     MARSHALL
         Clear.

Marshall catches his breath for a moment. Pulls open his
shirt. Beneath it he wears a bulletproof Kevlar vest. He
lifts the vest and a half-dozen angry welts have blossomed
across his skin. The stuff may be bulletproof, but each of
Vlad's shots sting like a motherfucker.

EXT. CORRIDOR.

Nevsky walks down the corridor. Sees that Vlad is away from
his post.

                     NEVSKY
         Viad?

*       INT. STAFF CABIN.

Marshall opens the medical cabinets, rifling through them.

Pulls out hypodermics, adrenalin, rubbing alcohol... arming

himself.

                     NEVSKY (O.S.)
         Vlad? Vlad?

EXT. CORRIDOR.

Nevsky works his way up the corridor, peeking in rooms.

As he enters the...

INT. STAFF CABIN.

he's blinded by the high intensity surgical lights.

Marshall cracks a tank of anesthesia across Nevsky's heu
Nevsky goes down.

Marshall rips Nevsky's MP5 off of him. Holds it to Nevsky's
throat.

                     MARSHALL
         Where are th*y? fly tamily, the
         crew.... where are they?

Nevsky says nothing.

The conference room, right? Right?

Marshall jerks him to his feet.

                     MARSHALL
         o'11 unlocli the door for me or I'll
         kill you.

INT. CORRIDOR -

Marshall walks flevsky toward the mj vonteronve room3 As
they pass the stairs to the upper deck, Nevsky breaks away.

                     NEVSKY
         KORSKUNOV!

Marshall fires. Killing him.

                     SHIT1
         INT. CORRIDOR.

No time for remorse. Marshall tries the Main conference Room
door. Locked. He knows the others will be coming so he
flattens himself against the corridor wall. Trains his gun
on the stairs.

Just as the terrorists descend, Marshall squeezes off a few
rounds. The terrorists edge back up the steps, returning
fire.

Marshall checks his clip, not many bullets left. He fires
off a few more shots to buy some time then ducks round the
corner and pulls out the bottle of rubbing alcohol and some
gauze.

The terrorists seize the moment of quiet, descending the
stairs to take position.

Marshall lights the gauze fuse of his new made Molatov

cocktail and throws it down the corridor. The bottle crashes
into a BALL OF FLAME. Catching Bazylev on fire. He yells,
drops and rolls. FIRE SUPPRESSING FOAM immediately sprays
down from overhead.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Go after him.

Serge hops Bazylev's burning body and heads down the corridor,
looking for this new wildcard. Korshunov grabs a fire
extinguisher from the galley and attends to Bazylev.

INT. CORRIDOR, TOWARD THE REAR OF AIR FORCE ONE.

Marshall retreats behind a divider. Sees Serge coming. Fires
a few rounds, then retreats to the next divider. Working
toward the rear of the plane.

Serge picks his way through the rear cabins, advancing
cautiously.

INT. REAR GALLEY/BATHROOMS.

Marshall's out of plane. Nowhere to hide in the galley.

Marshall eyes the bathrooms, doors flapping.

FOLLOWING SERGE...

as he reaches the rear galley and bathrooms. Marshall is
nowhere to be seen. But the bathroom doors are all closed.

                     SERGE
         I know you're in there. Come on out.
              (a few beats)
         Okay. Have it your way.

Time for a deadly version of the shell game. serge fires
several rounds into the first closed bathroom door. The
bullets slice easily through the thin doors. He kicks the
riddled door open. The stall is empty.

Serge moves to the next one. Same procedure. It's empty.

Moves to the last bathroom, confident he's got him. He wails
with his MP5, turning the hatch into swiss cheese. Waits a
beat, then...

Kicks it in. It's empty too.

Serge looks around. Where the hell is this guy?

                     KORSHUNOV (O.S.)
              (calling down)
         Serge?

Serge reluctantly returns to his group.

INT. LOWER GALLEY, BAGGAGE LEVEL -

Marshall tumbles out of the cramped galley dumbwaiter,
breathing heavy. He slumps against the bulkhead and slides

down to the ground.

He takes a moment to pull himself together, to clear his
head. He hefts the MP5, refamiliarizing himself with the
weight and texture of a gun. He checks the clip. Only a
handfull of rounds left. He slaps it back in and switches
from automatic fire to single-shot then pantomimes firing.

                     MARSHALL
         The NRA'll love this.

Looking down the barrel of the gun, he notices bins loaded
with luggage.

INT. OFFICE - NIGWR

Stoli Petrov on the phone, behind his large oak desk.

                     PETROV
         I understand your dilemma, Vice
         President Chandler. But unless you
         can confirm that your President is
         indeed a hostage, I cannot release
         Stravanavitch. If Marshall is dead,
         no good will come of meeting this
         demand. We both know he would agree.

V.P. CHANDLER (V.0. PHONE)

But the First Lady...

                     PETROV
         *.. is not a First Lady if her
         husband's been killed. Then she's a
         civilian. And I can't release him
         for a civilian. Do you see my point?

INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - DAY

Each member of the crisis team is either on the phone or
huddled with staff. A secure fax machine spits out papers
which Lee slips into files.

Lee interrupts Chandler on the phone.

                     LEE
         Madame Vice president. We have an
         options paper.  chandler takes the
         options paper, waves off Lee, and
         reads it as she talks.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         Yes. You've made yourself quite clear.

                     PETROV (V.0.)
         But I will deploy forces to a staging
         area near the Turkmenistan border.
         When you have more information, we
         can decide how to proceed.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         By then I'll be President.

Chandler hangs up the phone.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
              (of f options paper)
         I don't like any of these. from, did
         you brief General Northwood?

Northwood pops out of his huddle.

GENERAL NORTHWOOD

I'M INCLINED TO TRY THIS PART -

Anticipate their landing site and get strike teams in place.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         Can we do that?

                     GENERAL NORTHWOOD
         We've got four hours before they
         make it into Turkienistan airspace.

I've got a satellite passing overhead in twenty minutes. We
can narrow down the landing site choices based on runway
length and any unusual activity.  With luck we'll only have
to capture three or four sites.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         But they start executing hostages in

FORTY FIVE MINUTES.  -

                     GENERAL NORTHWOOD
         I hate to be pragmatic, but they'll
         sacrifice pawns before kings. It may
         take them some time to kill their
         way up to senior staff.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         Okay. Also, I want you to put our
         bases in Turkey on alert, and have
         the Kitty Hawk prepare a retaliatory
         air strike.

*                             DEAN

Madame Vice-President...

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         I've not discounted your theory Hr.

Dean...

                     DEAN
         No... I got the new numbers from our
         gamers. They believe that there's
         only an eight percent chance that
         the President is still alive.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         Eight percent is better than zero.

Oh shit... what is that?

Chandler refers to a monitor in the rear of the room.

CNN, the omnipresent player on the world political stage,
broadcasts video from Ramstein Air Base.

                     GENERAL GREELY
         That's trouble.

CNN REPORTER (V.0. T.V.)

*.. the Presidential Aircraft was enroute from Moscow when
it began its mayday hail. But in a startling turn of events,
the seemingly out of control plane aborted its landing and
took off again. We haven't been able to confirm its status
or whether or not the first family was onboard at the time.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         Would someone get the Press Secretary!

                     AIDE
         He's been holding on line four.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

Air Force One, lit up by moonlight.

INT. CORRIDOR.

The fire is extinguished. Zedeck squats over Nevsky's body.

Gibbs and Serge maintain a defensive position, guns ready.

Bazylev emerges from the Senior staff Conference room. He
shakes his head "no". Korshunov nods and furrows his brow.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Who did this?

                     GIBBS
         We checked the manifest. Everyone
         was accounted for.

                     KORSHUNOV
         A secret service agent. It must be.

Wounded but alive. Serge, Bazylev...

Find him.

Serge and Bazylev lock and load, head off in separate
directions.

                     KORSHUNOV
         The conference room is no longer
         secure. We'll take the First Lady
         and the girl up top where we can
         keep a closer eye on them.

INT. MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM -

The hostages have torn up a section of carpeting. Caidwell
and Shepherd examine the floor. Smooth sheets of steel riveted
together. Pointless.

                     MAJOR CAL DWELL
         We're not getting out that way.

The door swings open and Gibbs and Korshunov enter. They
spots the ripped up carpeting.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Admirable, but you're wasting your
         time.
              (beat)
         Mrs. Marshall, would you and your
         daughter please come here.

They don't move. Korshunov raises his gun, points it a
Shepherd's head.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Now, or he dies, please.

                     ROSE
         Come on, Alice.

                     ALICE
         I'm scared.

Doherty steps forward. Shepherd tries to pull him back, to
no

*       avail.

                     DOHERTY
         You've got the better part of the
         White House locked in this room, you
         know. If you want to negotiate, we're
         the ones to do it with.

Korshunov SHOOTS Doherty through the head. Screams from some
of the hostages. Korshunov squeezes off a few shots to quiet
everyone.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Mrs. Marshall. Alice. If you please.

Rose turns to the other hostages.

                     ROSE
         It's okay. Do what you're told. It's
         okay. We'll be okay.

She locks eyes with Caldwell. HKeep working.N He nods.

INT. REAR BAGGAGE HOLD -

The President hunts through luggage. Overturned garment bags
and suitcases around him, belongings littered all over the
bulkhead. He sifts through heaps of clothing and finally
recovers what he's been looking for...

A CELLULAR PHONE...

He flips it open, starts to dial... but freezes.

                     MARSHALL
         Goddamnit.

He can't remember the number. He dials...

CLOSE.ON PHONE -555-1212... Information.

The phone rings...

INT. FORWARD BAGGAGE HOLD.

Bazylev, moving like a commando, slowly and methodically
works his way into the lower galley.

INT. REAR BAGGAGE HOLD -

Marshall. Finally, the phone picks up.

                     VOICE (O.S. PHONE)
         Information. How can I assist you?

                     MARSHALL
         Washington D.C.?

                     VOICE
         Yes, sir. Can I help you?

                     MARSHALL
         Yes, the number for the White House.

INT. PILOT'S REST AREA - NIGHT

The rest area consists of a couple of bunks behind the

cockpit area, still soiled black from the earlier C-4
explosion. Korshunov pours a cup of coffee and offers it to
Alice.

                     ALICE
         I don't drink coffee.

                     KORSHUNOV
         You must be tired. It'll wake you
         up.

                     ALICE
         No, thank you. The gunfire did that.

Gibbs wraps Rose's hands behind her back with duct tape.

                     ROSE
         Leave my daughter alone.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Or you will do what, Mrs. Marshall?
              (beat, he chuckles)
         But I admire your courage. Your
         husband, on the other hand...

                     ROSE
         What do you know of my husband?

                     KORSHUNOV
         I know he left you behind.

                     ROSE
         My husband is a very courageous man.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Your husband is a coward. He sends
         soldiers half-way around the world
         to steal a man from his home in the
         middle of the night.

Alice sits up, attentive.

                     ALICE
         You're one of Stravanavitch's men.

                     KORSHUNOV
         So, you study world events, little
         one. That's good for a girl your
         age.

                     ALICE
         Yeah, I study world events. Five
         thousand Turkienistan Muslims were
         slaughtered in Stravanvitch's
         cleansings... along with 15 American
         school kids. You know hQw I studied
         that. I went to their funerals with
         my dad. I met their parents.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Smart for your age, eh? Top of your
         class? Tell me, do you know what the
         word "propaganda" means?

                     ALICE
         Yeah. Do you know what the word
         "asshole" means.

                     ROSE
         Alice!

Rose doesn't know whether to be pissed at Alice or proud of
her. Korshunov smiles, nods his head and lifts his gun.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Yes, I have heard that word.

He aims his gun at Alice.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Yes, I am an asshole.

A long beat, the Korshunov lovers the gun.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Your father is a reasonable man.

Once he hears our simple demand, I'm sure he will acquiesce.
For your sake.

Korshunov smiles. Gibbs grabs Alice's hands and pulls them
behind her back. Begins wrapping them with the tape.

INT. MAIN CABING, REAR GALLEY.

Serge searches through the galley cabinets, spots the galley
dumbwaiter. Now he knows where his quarry went.

He angrily grabs a service cart and shoves it into the
dumbwaiter, disabling it.

INT. GANGWAY -

Bazylev hears the beeps of a phone dialing. He moves toward
the aft portal of the gangway.

INT. REAR BAGGAGE HOLD -

Marshall waits as the phone rings...

INT. WHITE HOUSE, SWITCHBOARD ROOM - DAY

A chipper woman in her mid-20s picks up the call.

                     SWITCHBOARD
         White House switchboard. How may I
         direct your call.

MT. REAR BAGGAGE HOLD -

                     MARSHALL
              (hushed urgency)
         Okay listen, listen carefully. This
         is an emergency call from Air Force
         One. Who's there? Is the Vice-
         President there?

INT. WHITE HOUSE, SWITCHBOARD ROOM - DAY

                     SWITCHBOARD
         who can I say is calling?

                     MARSHALL (0.S. PHONE)
         This is the President.

                     SWITCHBOARD
         Yeah, right.

                     MARSHALL
         Don't cut me off. This is an
         emergency.

                     SWITCHBOARD
         Sir, the President does not call
         this particular number. So whoever
         you are get a life, before I have
         this call traced.

                     MARSHALL
         You don't understand. This is an
         emergency. Let me talk to anyone.

The switchboard operator thinks for a moment. Maybe she can
have some fun with this nutcase.

                     SWITCHBOARD
         Okay... if you're the President,
         when's your wife's birthday?

                     MARSHALL
         Look lady, I don't have time for
         games. Just put the....

                     SWITCHBOARD
         Thank you for calling the white
         House...

INT. REAR BAGGAGE HOLD -

                     MARSHALL
         No. no. no. Wait. Wait.

Bazylev appears behind Marshall. Raises his gun.

                     MARSHALL
         I should know this.

INT. WHITE HOUSE SWITCHBOARD ROOM -

                     MARSHALL (V.0.)
         It's June.

Gunfire in the background.

                     SWITCHBOARD
         Sir? Are you there? Sir? Sir?

Her face says N. The Switchboard operator pulls out a call
sheet and finds a number.

INT. REAR BAGGAGE HOLD -

On the phone, lying open on a heap of clothing.

Bazylev points the machine gun at Marshall's head.

                     BAZ YLEV
         Hands away from your weapon.

Marshall doesn't move, his np5 hanging at his waist... his
hand inches from it.

                     BAZYLEV
         Come now. You don't want to die.

Marshall... with no options... slowly moves his hands away
from the gun.

                     BAZYLEV
         On your knees...

                     PHONE (O.S.)
         Hello. Is anyone there?

Bazylev motions Marshall to get on his knees. Marshall
complies.

                     BAZYUV
         What's that in your shirt? Open it.

Marshall pulls his shirt aside revealing his Kevlar vest.

                     BAZYLEV
         Take it off. Now.

INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - DAY

Chandler on the phone. An aide waves, trying to get her
attention.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         My intention is not to escalate the
         situation, but it's a contigency
         that must be considered. Hang on...
              (to Aide)
         What?

                     AIDE
         The switchboard says that someone
         called in claiming to be the
         President, then she heard gunfire.

Caller's gone, but the line's still active.

                     DEAN
         Could be some crank watching CNN.

                     AIDE
         No sir. Trace confirms the call is
         Coming from a White House staff
         cellular account.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         Put it through down here.
              (into phone)
         Hang on, Toni.

The call comes in on speaker phone, distorted muffled voices
and the whine of an aircraft in the background.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         What's going on in the background?

Can we hear what's going on?

Dean picks up a phone.

                     DEAN
         Max, get me Willis.

INT. NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY,  LISTENING POST - DAY

WILLIS, a grossly overweight man in his late forties
surrounded by a monolith of high-tech, starts working his
console.

                     WILLIS
         Tracking... Intercepting call... Got
         it. Ten seconds, Mr. Dean.

Audio waveforms appear over Willis' console. He implements
digital filtering routines, cleaning up the sounds.

INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - DAY

The group listens intently. The call modulates, distorts,
dissolves... then clarifies.

                     BAZYLEV (V.0.)
         Hands... hands behind your head, Mr.

President.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         It's him. He is alive.

                     BAZYLEV
         I'm going to take your weapon now,
         and then I'm going to take you
         Upstairs to join the others.

Understand?

                     DEAN
         Christ, they have him.

                     BAZYLEV
         And if you make any sudden moves, I
         will not hesitate to shoot.

                     GENERAL NORTHWOOD
         Maybe they don't have him yet.

Northwood stares up at the tactical board. Air Force One...
surrounded by the F-l5s.

                     GENERAL NORTHWOOD
         And maybe we aren't so helpless.

General Northwood picks up a secure phone and dials.

                     GENERAL NORTPNOOD
         General Greely, Air Force One has
         automatic countermeasures, right?

                     GENERAL GREELY
         Everything we own is in that plane.

                     GENERAL NORTINOOD
         So a single missile launched from a
         distance should be a mere distraction.

                     GENERAL GREELY
         Theoretically.

                     GENERAL NORTHWOOD
              (into phone)
         Ramutein Tower Control, please.

                     GENERAL GREELY
              (getting it)
         But the effect could be jarring.

                     GENERAL NORTHWOOD
         Exactly. Ramstein? General
         Northwood... Patch me through to
         your fighters. Madame Vice
         President... with your permission?

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         Do it.

INT. AFT STORAGE COMPARTMENT -

Marshall on his knees, hands behind his head. Bazylev, his
automatic pressed against Marshall's forehead, disarms
Marshall before stepping away. He slings Marshall's MP5 over
his own neck. Studies Marshall a beat.

                     BAZ YLEV
         So you're the President. Somehow, I
         thought you'd be smaller.

Marshall stares straight ahead tn silent defiance. Bazylev
kicks him in the gut. Marshall doubles over, wheezing.

                     BAZYLEV
         Not so powerful now, eh? No aides to
         advise you, no secret service to
         protect you, no armies to command.

Bazylev grabs Marshall's hair and tugs his head back. He
holds Marshall with his eyes.

                     BAZYLEV
         You'll suffer for what you've done.

                     MARSHALL
         *                    So will you.

Bazylev slams Marshall's face against his knee. Marshall
slumps forward.

                     BAZYLEV
         Up. Get up now!

Marshall slowly rises to his feet. Bazylev swings wide around
him.

                     BAZYLEV
         You will walk ahead... slowly. Do
         you understand?
              (no response)
         Do you understand!

                     MARSHALL
         Do you know what's going to happen
         to you because of this? Do you know
         what the world will do?

                     BAZYLEV
         Nothing. The world will do nothing.

That is what they've always done.

INT. MAIN CABIN, FORWARD GALLEY -

Serge seals off the second dumbwaiter.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT
63.

The Squadron of F-15 Eagles hover around Air Force One.

                     COL. CARLTON (V.0.)
         You want me to what?

                     GENERAL NORTPNOOD (V.0.)
         You heard the order. And do not, I
         repeat, do not take your best shot.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Roger, sir. Okay boys, clear the
         deck. I have been ordered to engage
         Air Force One.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

The other airplanes flare out giving distance to the Jumbo
Jet. Canton's plane drops back.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Assuming attack posture. Targeting
         computer is on.

INT. CARLTON'S COCKPIT - NIGHT

On TARGETING COMPUTER - Graphics: As it acquires Air Force
One.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Target is acquired. I have good tone
         CLOSE ON: The flight stick. Carlton's
         finger over the firing button. He
         hesitates.

                     COL. CARLTON
         They're gonna court martial me for
         this.

INT. AIR FORCE ONE, GANGWAY -

Hands behind his head, Marshall walks in front of Bazylev,
an MP5 pressed against his neck.

INT. F-15 EAGLE COCKPIT - NIGHT

Carlton pulls the trigger.

EXT. F-15 EAGLE - NIGHT

An air-to-air missile detatches from under the Eagle. Its
tail ignites in flame.

INT. AIR FORCE ONE COCKPIT - NIGHT

Zedeck monitoring the controls. Situation normal. Then all
hell breaks loose as an entire wall of instrumentation lights
up. Warning bells. Flashing lights.

                     ZEDECK
         What is this?

The TACTICAL COUNTERMEASUREs COMPUTER - Springs to life.

High-tech readouts, risk analyses, schematics, and
assessments. Radar tracks the incoming, identifies it.

On Screen:       "Autopilot disengaged"

The plane banks into a dive, throwing Zedeck back against
his chair.

                     ZEDECK
         Gibbs! Gibbs! Get in here.

On screen:     "Activating countermeasures"

EXT. SICY - NIGHT

With no oneat the controls, Air Force One goes into a sharp
sloping dive.

INT. GANGWAY, AIR FORCE ONE -

Bazylev, thrown off balance, tries to keep his gun trained
on Marshall.

                     BAZYLEV
         Don't move!

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

The missile follows a wide arc toward the banking plane.

INT. AFO, COCKPIT -

Gibbs slides into the pilot's seat, attempts to regain
control.

                     GIBBS
         What the hell's going on?

                     ZEDECK
         The Americans fired at us.

The Tactical Countermeasures Computer:

"Electronic Jamming has failed Target acquired"

Out the cockpit window, the brightly burning tail of the
missile closing on them.

                     GIBBS
         Why would they fire on us?

The Tactical Countermeasures Computer:

                    "Missile Closing:

Metallic Chaff Burst Standing by:"

The computer counts down from eight... seven...

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

The missile screams toward the jumbo jet, a slow easy target.

INT. COCKPIT - NIGHT

                     ZEDECK
         Do something.

Five... Four...

                     GIBBS
         I'm not a combat pilot.

Three... two....

                     ZEDECK
         Shit!

EXT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

Small bays doors slip open below the aircraft. A cloud of
small metallic narticles sprays out of the bottom of the
aircraft.

INT. COCKPIT -

On the faces of the terrorists, as the missile comes right
at them.

Then the missile veers downward.

The Tactical Countermeasures Computer:

                  "Missile Neutralized"

EXT. SKY - MIGHT

The missile dives into the swarm of descending chaff and
DETONATES, lighting up the evening sky. Red flames reflect
against the silver-grey clouds.

INT. AIR FORCE ONE, VARIOUS SHOTS - NIGHT

The shock wave hits the aircraft.

Lights flicker and the plane rocks side to side.

HOSTAGES are bounced around the conference room.

INT. GANGWAY -

Marshall and Bazylev are slammed against the ceiling and
then the floor.

Marshall seizes the moment. Grabs Bazylev's gun. The two
struggle and Bazylez instinctively pulls the trigger. A burst
of richocheting gunfire sparks across the bulkhead.

The turbulence worsens. Bazylev manages to wrest away the
rifle, but the plane pulls into a climb, sending Bazylev
tumbling down the gangway into the rear baggage hold.

Marshall manages to pull himself up the grating and into the
galley. He's free, for the moment.

INT. AFO, COCKPIT.

Gibbs steadies the plane as the shock wave from the explosion
*        subsides.

                     GIBBS
         We're okay.

Korshunov examines the Tactical Countermeasures Computer.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Remarkable aircraft. Remarkable.

                     GIBBS
         why did they do that?

                     KORSHUNOV
         Psychology. They're trying to unnerve
         us.

                     GIBBS
         Well it worked.

Korshunov smiles and puts his hand on Gibbs shoulder.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Relax, my friend. Apparently they
         cannot harm us. Even if they wanted
         to.  rNT. FRONT GALLEY.
                         67.

                     BAZYLEV
              (disgust)
         The leader of the free world.

He backs Marshall against a wall and holds him in his sights.

But he doesn't shoot. His breathing becomes faster and faster
as the adrenalin takes hold. Building... building... He
screams and clutches at his throat.

His eyes spin back and then his heart explodes.

Bazylev is caught frozen, suspended in a moment of disbelief.

Death reflex. He fires off several rounds from the gun as he
collapses.

Marshall waits a beat, half-expecting Bazylev to rise. He
slowly approaches the body and retrieves the KP5.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

The F-lSs pull back into formation around the Jumbo Jet.

INT. REAR BAGGAGE HOLD -

Marshall retrieves the phone, then wedges himself behind a
waste storage tank, out of view.

INT. PILOT'S REST AREA -

Rose and Alice On the bunk. Alice's eyes are Watering.

Korshunov examines tOPographic maps in the adjacent M1C.c.
and speaks into a phone in Russian.

                     ALICE
         Mom?

                     ROSE
         Yes dear?

                     ALICE
         I'm sorry I was so mean to you
         earlier.

Rose smiles sadly.

                     ROSE
         I know, sweetie. I know.
              (beat)
         You're being very brave.

Alice nods. She's trying.

INT. MAIN CABIN.

Serge finishes his sweep of the upper level.

                     SERGE
              (to Zedeck)
         He's not up here. I'm going down
         below.

INTERCUT:

INT. REAR BAGGAGE HOLD/INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM

Marshall rips his sleeve off, swabs the blood off his arm.

Bazylev's bullet took out a good chunk of flesh when it grazed
him.

                     MARSHALL
         Did they say anything about my family?

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         They're still alive, but the loyalists
         plan to start killing hostages in
         forty minutes.

                     MARSHALL
         Then tell me there's a rescue
         operation underway.

Marshall opens a travel bottle of Vodka and pours it over
the wound. He winces from the pain.

V.p CHANDLER                      69.

I think we're okay, sir. flow that we know You're alive we
can force Petrov to release Stravanavitch.

MARSpari Don't tell me you plan to give in to these fuckers.

GENERAL NORmwOOD We plan to do whatever it takes to keep you
alive, sir.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         and if that means negotiating...

                     MARSHALL
         You know my policy. We don't negotiate
         with terrorists. If we start now,
         all of America becomes a target.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         But this is different, sir. You're
         the President.

*                               MARSHALL

And what happens when Stravanavitch is freed and discovers
he's got the President? You think for a second that that
crazy bastard is just gonna turn me over? He'll ask for the
goddamn moon before he's done.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         Please, Mr. President. You're going
         to get yourself killed. Is that your
         solution?

                     MARSHALL
         Freeing Stravanavitch is gonna get
         tens of thousands killed. I can't
         live with that.
              (somewhat resigned)
         I'm not royalty. I'm an elected
         official and the integrity of the
         office of the President is infinitely
         more important than the man who holds
         that office.
              (beat)
         We don't negotitate. Not as long as
         I'm President. Is that understood?

A long silence, then...

YES SIR.      CHANDLER

                     MARSHALL
         flow, is there a rescue operation
         under way or not?

Lee shakes his head at Chandler, signalling "don't tell."

                     LEE
         He's not on a secure line.

MARSHAlj Whoever said that, shut up. Walter, are you there?

                     DEAN
         I'm here, Mr. President.

                     MARSHALL
         Where's the cavalry?

                     DEAN
         We can't do anything until that plane
         lands. And when it does land, sir,
         it's going to be in hostile *
         territory. To be perfectly honest,
         we don't know what the hell to do.

It's going to take a miracle to figure this one out.

A long beat. We hold on Marshall's determined face.

                     MARSHALL
         I'll see what I can do.

INT. GALLEY.

Serge comes across Bazylev. Checks for any sign of life.

Stone cold dead. He looks around and grips his gun a little
tighter as he backs out of the room.

INT. MAIN CABIN.

Serge closes the stair access panel to the baggage deck.

Sealing Marshall off.

INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT

Serge comes trotting up the stairs and collects new clips.

                     SERGE
         Bazylev is dead.

Korshunov swallows hard...

AND THE

                     SERGE
         Trapped On the baggage deck. Let me
         go finish him.

                     KORSHUNOV
         No. He has the advantage down there.

Bring me a hostage. A woman.

INT. FORWARD BAGGAGE HOLD.

Marshall sees that the stairway hatch has been sealed.

INT. LOWER GALLEY - NIGHT

Marshall hits the button for the dumbwaiter. The dumbwaiter
begins to descend then snags on the service cart. Its motor
grind to a halt. Marshall slumps dQwn. His hopes dashed.

Nothing to do now but wait.

INT. MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM.

Serge looks over the crowd of hostages like a bouncer at a
hip dance club. His eyes fall on Maria Mitchell.

                     SERGE
         You. Come with me.

INT. LOWER GALLEY.

Marshall, seated on the floor. The cabinet next to him is
stacked with packs of complimentary cigarettes, all with the
seal of the President.

                     MARSHALL
         What the hell...

He opens up a pack and puts the cigarette in his mouth. He
snags one of the Presidential lighters, tries to light it
several times but it only sparks. XC shakes it. It's out of
tial. He tosses it aside and reaches for a book of matches,
but he FREEZES in mid-reach. A thought occurs to him.

                     MARSHALL
              (murmuring)
         Out of fuel.

INT. FORWARD BAGAGE HOLD - NIGHT

Marshall, lacking a screwdriver, levers open the hatch to
the Avionics compartment with the barrel of his gun.

RUT. AVIONICS COMPARTMENT - NIGHT

Marshall sees the stacks of panels, piping, Wiring,
electronics.

                     MARSHALL
         Come on, where are you...

He searches up and down.

INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT

Serge leads Maria Mitchell up the stairway. Korshunov nods.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Ms. Mitchell. Hello again.

Maria is scared, she says nothing. She looks over to the
First Lady and Alice.

                     ROSE
         Maria.

Korshunov switches on the airplane's P.A.

                     KORSHUNOV
         *                     Please tell me
         your name.

                     MITCHELL
              (frightened)
         Maria... Maria Mitchell.

                     KORSHUNOV
         And what is it you do, Ms. Mitchell.

Maria Mitchell's voice echos over throughout Air Force One.

INT. AVIONICS COMPARTMENT.

Marshall halts his search to listen.

                     MITCHELL (V.0.)
         I'm responsible for Press Relations
         for the Flight Office.

                     KORSHUNOV (V.0.)
         How are your fellow hostages feeling,
         Ms. Mitchell?

                     MITCHELL
         Scared. We're scared.

INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT

Rose cradles Alice, both of them looking away, as Korshunov
raises his gun, pointing it at Mitchell.

                     KORSHUNOV
         And why are you scared?

                     MITCHEL*L
         Because... because I don't want to
         die.

INT. MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM.

The hostages, listening.

                     KORSHUNOV
         And what am I doing at this very
         moment.

INT. AVIONICS COMPARTMENT - NIGHT

Marshall listens, helpless to do anything.

                     MITCHELL
         You're pointing a gun at me.

INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER -

                     KORSHUNOV
         Very good. Thank you, Ms. Mitchell.

Did you hear her? She said I'm pointing a gun at her.

INT. AVIONICS COMPARTMENT -

                     KORSHUNOV
         Now, to the secret service agent in
         the baggage deck. I'm giving you ten
         seconds to surrender, or this women
         will die.

Marshall's eyes widen.

                     KORSHUNOV
         One...

Oh shit. Marshall tries to decide what to do.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Two...

He climbs out of the avionics compartment and hurries to the
front baggage compartment.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Three...

INT. MAIN CABIN.

Zedeck and Serge wait by the stairway hatch.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Four...

INT. MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM.

Hostages wait, expectantly.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Five...

INT. FRONT BAGGAGE HOLD.

Marshall frozen near the bottom of the steps. To go up would
be to betray everything he believes in, and lose any chance
to save the others. But if he stays...

                     KORSHUNOV
         Six...

INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER.

Tears stream down Maria Mitchell's face. She's trying so
hard to be brave in front of Rose and Alice.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Seven...

INT. FRONT BAGGAGE HOLD.

For Marshall, this is the hardest decision of his life. His
face a mask of anguish as he wrestles with his conscience.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Eight...

He starts toward the stairs.

INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER.

Korshunov looking down the barrel of the gun.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Nine...

INT. FRONT BAGGAGE HOLD.

It takes every bit of training and will to stop Marshall
from going up those stairs. He knows what's going to happen.
He closes his eyes tight as if that will stop it from
happening.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Ten...

A long silent beat. Then... BAAAAM!

                     MARSHALL
         NO!

Marshall sinks to to his knees.

                     MARSHALL
         Aw, Jesus.

INT. MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM.

Hostages hold each other tight for comfort. A mournful silence
fills the room.

INT. FRONT BAGGAGE HOLD.

Marshall, silhouetted in the half light, craddles his head
head in his hands. The shaft of light disappears as the main
cabin hatch closes, sealing him off once again.

                     KORSFL3NOV (V.0.)
         I'll give you a few minutes to think
         about that one and then we'll try
         again. Perhaps soon I will choose
         somebody important.

                     MARSHALL
              (to himself)
         She was important.

INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER.

zedeck and Serge drag the dead woman out of the compartment.

Alice sobs quietly.

                     ROSE
         Do you have to be so brutal?

                     KORSHUNOV
         Yes

                     ROSE
         Why? Do you enjoy it?

                     KORSHUNOV
         I neither enjoy nor dislike. I do
         what is necessary.

                     ROSE
         How can you? I mean they're people.

*
76.

                     KORSHUNOV
         But they are not ny people. You look
         at me as if I am a monster, but answer
         me this -- when your planes bombed
         the oil fields of Iraq, did You cry
         for those dark skinned men whose
         names you do not know and who's faces
         You will never see? Did You cry for
         their wives and children. They were
         people too, yes... but they were not
         your people.

                     ROSE
         That was war.

                     KORSHUNOV
         So is this.
              (beat)
         Come now, you're upsetting the little
         one.

                     ALICE
         The woman you shot. She was my friend.

                     KORSHUNOV
         That's the way of the world, little
         one. Didn't they teach you that in
         school?

INT. FORWARD BAGGAGE HOLD.

Marshall crosses back to the avionics compartment, talking
on the phone.

                     VOICE
              (through static)
         Chief Mechanic, 87th Air. How can I
         help you?

                     MARSHALL
         You can talk me through an emergency
         fuel dump.

INT. MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM.

                     MAJOR CALDWELL
         Led off to slaughter one at a time.

Next time I say we rush `em. They can't shoot us all.

                     SHEPHERD
         They can shoot enough of us.

*
77.

                     MAJOR CALDWELL
         If we don't act, they'll kill US all
         eventually Who's with me?

Several of the hostages raise their hands.

INT. AFO'S MAINTENANCE HANGER/ANDREWS AIR FORCE BASE - DAY

The Chief Mechanic has Air Force One schematics open in front
of him. He and his staff are huddled around them.

                     CHIEF MECHANIC
         Do you see the maintenance panel?

                     MARSHALL
         Got it.

                     CHIEF MECHANIC
         Pop it open. There should be a red
         switch, toggle it up.

                     MARSHALL
         Okay, it's on. We've got some
         indicator lights here.

                     CHIEF MECHANIC
         Okay, you're aerated. To dump the
         fuel you have to close the circuit
         for the pump. There's no switch in
         Avionics so you'll have to cross the
         wires. There should be five wires,
         just to your left. Do you see them?

INT. AVIONICS COMPARTMENT - NIGHT

Marshall finds the wires: red, white, blue, green and yellow.

                     MARSHALL
         Got `en.

Static blankets the conversation.

                     CHIEF MECHANIC
         Okay, hang on. Let me double check

here, because if you get the wrong ones, you'll cut the engine
feeds and stall the plane.

                     MARSHALL
         I'll wait.

The static worsens.

                     CHIEF MECHANIC
         First... cut... green wire.

Marshall, Using a kitchen knife, slices the green wire. Heavy
static. The phone beeps... lOsing batteries.

                     MARSHALL
         It's cut.

                     CHIEF MECHANIC
         cross it...  The static overwhelms
         the voice, then cuts out.

                     MARSHALR'
         Hello? Hello? Goddamnit.

Static comes roaring back and garbled voices...

MARSHAlj Hello? Are YOU there?

Dead. Marshall tries to activate it again.

MARSHAIJi Hello? Hello?

Nothing. He tosses the dead phone aside.

Marshall stares. Cross the green wires with the... what?

Red, white, blue... or the yellow. His choice is obvious. He
cuts the yellow wire and crosses it with the green, leaving
the red, white and blue standing.

He waits. The engines continue to groan. He allows himself a
smile.

                     MARSHALL
         An emergency landing in friendly
         territory... there's your goddamn
         miracle.

EXT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

Beneath the plane a trickle of gasoline appears and grows
into a strong steady stream.

INT. FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT

A red warning light flashes on the plane's panel.

                     GIBBS
         Goddamnit it. We're losing fuel.

Korshunov crosses to the flight deck.

                     KORSHUNOV
         How?

                     GIBBS
         Avionics compartment! It's the only
         place. You better get Zedeck down
         there fast Unless, of course, you'd
         rather be a martyr than a savior.

                     KORSHUNOV
              (to Zedeck)
         Go! Take Serge.. and watch your backs.

Zedeck nods and dashes out of the cabin.

INT. MAIN CABIN.

Zedeck pulls open the hatch cover to the forward front stairs.
Descends into the dimly lit underneath.

Serge descends right behind Zedeck.

INT. FORWARD BAGGAGE COMPARTMENT - NIGHT

Zedeck, Spooked by the dark shadows, senses he's being
watched.

                     ZEDECK
         He's down here. I can feel it.

                     SERGE
         Shut up and do your job.

Zedeck hastens toward the Avionics compartment, gun at the
ready. Serge sweeps the area behind.

They hear a metallic clank echo and reverberate around him.

They both check left... right... behind them...

Nothing.

It's creepy being a walking target.

From behind a water storage tank, Marshall watches down the
barrel of his Mp5. With all the equipment in the way, it's
almost impossible to line up a clear shot.

And they're both well armed. He looks toward the stairway
instead.

Zedeck enters the Avionics compartment. Serge takes a
defensive position outside the door.

                     ZEDECK (O.S.)
         The valve is shut. This guy sure
         knew what he was doing.

Serge hears a noise and opens tire.
80.

                     ZEDECK
         You see him?

                     SERGE
         Erring on the side of caution.

INT. AVIONICS COMPARTMENT -

Zedeck opens a panel and rips out some wiring.

                     ZEDECK
         I'm going to deactivate the by-pass
         pump. It'll take a minute.

INT. FLIGHT DECK.

Gibbs checks the fuel gauges. They stop falling.

                     GIBBS
         We've stopped dumping... but we've
         only got about twenty minutes of
         fuel left.

                     KORSHUNOV
         We're not going to make it.

                     GIBBS
         Not even close. Hell, we can't even
         make Syria or Iraq.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Where are we now?

                     GIBBS
         Over the Black Sea. I can probably
         get us to Turkey or Georgia.

                     KORSHUNOV
         No! If we land this plane anywhere
         else, we will end up another Entebe.
              (beat)
         The Americans built a super plane
         that flies through mushroom cloud,
         evades missiles and...
              (holding up Maria
              Mitchell's press kit)
         refuels in mid-air. Call the White
         House.

INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM -

Tactical Map: Air Force One over the Black Sea heading south
west toward Turkmenistan.

An Aide holds up a phone.

                     AIDE
         It's him again.

INT. MISSION COMMUNICATION CENTER -

Korshunov on the phone.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Gentlemen, forgive me for diverting
         you from your little wargames, but
         I've just added another demand to my
         very short list. I assure you it's
         quite reasonable.

INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM -

                     KORSHUNOV (V.0. PHONE)
         We need fuel, gentlemen. And we need
         it right now.

Lee whispers to the Vice President.

                     LEE
         Finally, we can bargain.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         I'm sure we can strike some sort of
         arrangement. Land the plane and we'll
         trade you hostages for fuel.

                     KORSHUNOV
         No. The plane lands when I say, or
         it will crash. The hostages are
         released when I say, or they will
         die.

INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Tell me what I want to hear or I
         will execute a member of the senior
         staff, and will continue killing one
         hostage every minute until we crash
         or until a refueling plane arrives.

Murmuring and hushed discussion floats over the airwaves.

A long silence. Korshunov looks toward Alice.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Shall I begin by executing the
         President's daughter? She's right
         here.

                     ROSE
         No.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Say something dear.

                     ALICE
         Fuck off, you stupid asshole.

                     KORSHUNOV
         It would be a pity to squander such
         a strong personality.

Another several beats of hushed murmuring.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Well? What do you say?

V.P. CHANDLER (V.0. PHONE)

Fuel's on its way.

INT. MAIN CABIN.

Serge and Zedeck lower the hatch to the baggage compartment
and seal it. They head up the stairs to the M.C.C.

INT. M.C.C. - NIGHT

Korshunov paces, weighing his pistol in his hand.

                     KORSHUNOV
         We trained for months. Everything
         should've gone like clockwork.

                     ZEDECK
         We have the hostages, we're getting
         more fuel.

                     KORSHUNOV
         He's already killed three of us, and
         we haven't even seen him. He's also
         shown that he can hurt us. I need to
         think.
              (looks at Serge)
         What the hell are you doing up here?

Get back to the conference room.

INT. MAIN CABIN

Serge takes his position by the conference room.

Across from him, against the cabin divider, Marshall peers
down the sight of his gun.

Serge freezes.

                     MARSHALL
         Don't make the same mistake your
         friend did earlier... Show me your
         hands.

Serge raises his hands. Marshall reaches over and pulls out
the clip to his MP5.

                     MARSHALL
         Open the door.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - NIGHT

Caldwell, Shepherd and a few other aides hear the key turn
in the lock. They quickly take position around the door. As
Marshall marches Serge in, they're both tackled and smothered
by the group. They wrest the guns away and shut the door
quickly behind them.

Marshall struggles against his people.

                     MARSHALL
         It's me goddamnit. Let me go.

Surprised to hear their boss' voice, the aides and advisors
release Marshall.

                     SHEPHERD
         Mr. President, how the hell did you
         get on board?

                     MARSHALL
         I never left. Where's my wife and
         daughter?

                     MAJOR CALDWELL
         They took `em out. They're probably
         on the upper deck.

                     SHEPHERD
         Mr. President, Major Caldwell here
         has a plan to get these hostages of
         f the plane.

                     MARSHALL
         I dumped most of the fuel. They'll
         land soon and Delta will take its
         shot.

                     SERGE
         A refueling plane is already on it's
         way so we won't be landing until we
         reach Turkmenistan. Your best course
         of action is to release me. I will
         be merciful.

MAJOR CALDWELL                   84.

Sir, maybe we can use this. Turn it to our advantage.

                     MARSHALL
         Mr. Caidwell, the ground's a few
         miles away. How do you propose getting
         us from here to there?

                     MAJOR CALDWELL
         Gravity.

INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM -

Satellite pictures of various landing strips projected on
wall-sized monitors.

                     DEAN
         Of the three dozen airports in
         Turkmenistan, only five have
         sufficient runways for a 747. Of
         those five, only these three have
         shown any activity.

General Northvood points with a laser pointer.

                     GENERAL NORTPNOOD
         But this one here, see this. It's a
         satellite dish and it wasn't there
         two weeks ago. Basic communications
         uplink, which suggests extensive
         communicatins ability. I'd say this
         was the one.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         Are you confident you can take the
         facility?

                     GENERAL NORTIWOOD
         It's night there for a few more hours.
         That's a real plus. But I won't lie.
         As far as special ops go, this one's
         a bear, but I think we squeeze it
         out.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         Let's get it going.

                     AIDE
         The Press Secretary's about to go
         on.

INT. MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM - NIGHT

                     MAJOR CALDWELL
         If we can get to a lower altitude,
         we can use parachutes, but at this
         altitude, we'll pass out from Oxygen
         deprivation.

                     MARSHALL
         We've already played our cards, Major.
         There's no turning back.

                     MAJOR CALDWELL
         We can't jump from here or at this
         speed. But if we could get a message
         out - tell the refueling plane...

                     MARSHALL
         They've cut communication, and I
         spent a good bit of time looking for
         alternatives. My only solution ran
         out of batteries.

A nearby SECRETARY in her late 20's pipes up.

                     SECRETARY
         The fax machines.

                     MARSHALL
         Excuse me?

                     SECRETARY
         The fax machines.

                     MARSHALL
              (dismissive)
         No good. I said they disabled the
         communications system.

                     SECRETARY
         No. I thought about this, Mr.

President. Voice lines and faxes are on two completely
different systems of encryption. It'd be easy to overlook
the data systems.

What do they have to lose?

                     MARSHALL
              (to Caldwell)
         Get `em ready.
              (to secretary)
         You... come with me.

                     MAJOR CALDWELL
         Eighteen thousand feet, sir. And two
         hundred knots... otherwise it's
         suicide.

                     MARSHALL
         Got it.

INT. CORRIDOR.

Caidwell, holding Serge's gun, takes position by the front
stairway and waves the other hostages on. They emerge from
the conference room, and move to the stairway.

Marshall and the secretary rush the opposite direction toward
the equipment room.

INT. WHITE HOUSE PRESS ROOM - DAY

Amid shouting questions, the PRESS SECRETARY alights to the
podium.

                     PRESS SECRETARY
         Please. Quiet please... First let
         me... Please... I have a prepared
         statement... The White House confirms
         that the President's aircraft, Air
         Force One, has been hijacked and is
         currently controlled by foreign
         nationals.

Murmurs, shouts, and more questions.

                     REPORTERS
         Is the President onboard?/ What about
         the First Family?/ What are their
         demands?

                     PRESS SECRETARY
         Please... please... For security
         reasons I can not comment on any
         specifics except to say that the
         Vice-President is doing everything
         within her power to resolve the
         situation.

                     PULL BACK
         T.V. monitor on broadcasting CNN.
         We're in the...

INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER - NIGHT

Korshunov turns toward the monitor. Furrows his brow.

                     KORSHUNOV
         And you are almost out of time.

Where is the President?

INT. EQUIPMENT ROOM.

Marshall and the Secretary step over Perkins' body on the
way to the fax machine.

                     SECRETARY
         Here sir.

Marshall grabs a piece of paper and a pen. Scribbles a note.

                     SECRETARY
         Where are we sending it?

                     MARSHALL
         White House Situation room.

He signs the paper and hands it toher. She slides it into
the machine, checks the listed numbers and dials.

                     MARSHALL
         Someone should give you a raise.

                     SECRETARY
         Actually, sir, you could be that
         someone.

They wait... will it work? A few beats, a few beats more.
The machine pulls the paper in and begins scanning.

                     MARSHALL
         It's yours.

INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM.

Marshall's note spits out of one of the fax machines. But in
the bevy of activity, will it be noticed?

INT. UNDERDECK, REAR LOWER GALLEY - NIGHT

Caldwell spins open the rear emergency pressure door and
leads the hostages into...

INT. TAILCONE PARACHUTE LAUNCH PLATFORM -

A cargo hold extending up the tapered edge of the aircraft's
rear. The hostages begin pulling parachute packs out of the
overhead storage bins. Helping each other.

INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM.

Korshunov listens to Zedeck yell into the phone in Russian.

                     ZEDECK
         Still no movement on Stravanavitch.

Korshunov eyes Alice and Rose.

                     ROSE
         Nor will there be. My husband does
         not negotiate with terrorists.

                     KORSHUNOV
         You will be the first to pay for
         that mistake.

INT. EMERGENCY PARACHUTE LAUNCH RAMP.

Caidwell assists everyone in strapping on their packs. He
addresses one group, mostly women and senior staff, who belt
into the larger chutes.

                     MAJOR CALDWELL
         These chutes are designed for a safe
         slow descent. They'll deploy off the
         line automatically as you step from
         the plane.
              (turns to another
              group, mostly younger
              men)
         You guys'll have to pull your own
         rip cords. Wait until you're clear
         from the plane, but not any longer.
              (he checks packs and
              straps)
         Once I check you, go stand behind
         the yellow line. You're good. You're
         good. You're good.

Two neat lines ready to jump. One line on the deployment
wire, and the other set for freefall.

Marshall and the secretary arrive.

                     MAJOR CALDWELL
         Mr. president?  pwtsHALL The fax
         went through. We can only wait.

                     MAJOR CAWWELL
         Your chute.

                     MARSHALL
         I'll not going without my family.

                     MAJOR CALDWELL
         Yes, sir.

Caidwell crosses to prep the Launch Ramp controls.

INT. COCKPIT.

The gas gauges read very close to empty. Korshunov Stands
behind Gibbs, while Zedeck keeps an eye on the First Lady.

                     GIBBS
         Where's that goddamn plane?  tNT.
         EMERGENCY PARACHUTE LAUNCH RAMP.

Everybody waits. Caidwell watches the indicator. 30,000 feet.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

A KC-135, the USAF flying gas station, descends in front of
Air Force One.

                     KC-135 PILOT
         Air Force One, this is AF-135-RA. We
         have been instructed to refuel your
         plane.

TNT. AIR FORCE ONE FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT

                     GIBBS
         About goddamn time.

                     KC-135 PILOT
         Please change course to Zero Seven
         Four and drop to eighteen thousand
         feet. Over.

                     GIBBS
         Air Force One, acknowledged.  tNT.
         EMERGENCY PARACHUTE LAUNCH RAMP.

The altimeter begins to fall. A wave of relief washes over
the group.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

The KC-135 extends its flying gas pump.

                     KC-135 PILOT
         Air Force One, please reduce speed
         to 250 knots.

                     GIBBS (V.0. RADIO)
         Roger.

TNT. AFO FLIGHT DECK.
90.

Okay1 now   KC-135 PILOT (V.0. Radio) vent your fueling
system.

It's the yellow lever on the upper control panel. And next
to that there's a toggle Switch to open your intake. Got it?

                     GIBBS
         Roger KC-135 PILOT (V.0. Radio)

Air Force One, do you see the fueling arm?

Through the cockpit Window, the long metallic appendage
dangles ahead of the plane.

                     GIBBS
         That's affirmative.

                     KC-135 PILOT
         Ga get it.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

As Air Force One edges its nose up to the appendage. The
appendage finds it's grove and slides right in.

TNT. TAILCONE PARACHUTE LAUNCH PLATFOIW -

                     MAJOR CALOWELL
         That's it, eighteen thousand feet.

We're ready.

                     MARSHALL
         What about them?

Marshall indicates the four men without parachutes on. TWO
AIR FORCE CREW MEMBERS, Major Caldwell and Shepherd.

                     MAJOR CALDWELL
         Sir, we stay with the President.

                     MARSHALL
         That isn't necessary.

None of them changes his mind.

                     MARSHALL
         Thank you.

A silent beat. A few forced smiles in this very tense room.

*
91.

                     MAJOR CALDWELL
         Relax everybody. I used to do this
         for a living9 Caidwell pulls a switch
         on the wall.

                     MAJOR CALDWELL
         Depressurizing compartment. This `11
         take a moment.

The President crosses to one of his aides.

                     MARSHALL
         Hey, by the way... who won the Duke
         game?

                     AIDE
         Find out for yourself, sir. I'll
         have it waiting at the White House.

Marshall smiles.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

The KC-135 flies above Air Force One, connected by a gasoline
umbilical cord.

INT. EMERGENCY RAMP PLATFORM.

Caldwell breaks safety glass. Reaches into a compartment and
pulls a lever.

                     MAJOR CALDWELL
         Here we go.

A mechanical him and clank gives way to a rush of wind as
the tail section of Air Force One hinges open on hydraulic
struts, extending like a plank behind the plane. We can see
the sky with its angry clouds.

Rushing by at two hundred knots.

INT. FLIGHT DECK.

A LOUD BUZZ

                     KORSHUNOV
         What's that?

A warning light flashes on the control panel. Tactical Video
Display shows the emergency parachute ramp activating.

INT. MAIN CABIN.

Zedeck runs toward the conference room. He bursts through
the doors.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM -

Empty.

INT. FRONT HOLD/LOWER GALLEY -

Tracking: Zedeck Sprinting to the rear of the plane.

EXT. AIR FORCE ONE -

The tail cone section of Air Force One hinges open and
parachutes begin to blossum from the rear of the plane.

INT. F-15 EAGLE -

From several miles back Carlton watches the chutes emerge.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Here they come.

INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM.

Radio traffic echos through the room.

                     COL. CMLTON (V.0.)
         We got... okay... so far ten chutes
         deploying of f the line. Dropping
         signal flares for search and rescue.

INT. ITEAR BAGGAGE HOLD -

Zedeck reaches the emergency pressure door. Through the
porthole he sees the hostages getting away. He tries the
door hatch. Locked.

Zedeck looks around. Crosses to the lower rear galley.

He kicks open the panel on the stove. Rips out the propane
tank. He runs back and wedges the tank into the door lock.

He backs off 50 feet, turns and opens fire on the tank.

The tank explodes, blowing the door out.

EMERGENCY PARACHUTE LAUNCH PLATFORM

The pressure door blows open and an explosion of pressurized
air blasts through the platform.

The remaining parachutists are blown out the rear. Chutes
deploying.

Marshall and Serge are knocked down the ramp, tumbling toward
oblivion. Just as Marshall's about to slide off the corner
of the ramp he grabs its hydraulic strut.

Plummeting death.

His grip is all that separates his dangling body from a long
Serge tumbles by Marshall, limbs flailing, and with a scream
Woven from a thousand nightma5, he loses his grip and slides
off the ramp into the jetblack sky, falling endlessly.

Shepherd and Caldwell manage to hang to safety webbing as
the

wind whips around them. The two other air force crew members
Without chutes also manage to hang on.

As the plane depressurizes, it BUCKS like a wild bronco.

Marshall looks down into the sky. Below his dangling legs,
parachutes blossoij. He's straining... he can't hold on
forever.

INT. COCKPIT -

Gibbs fights the wheel.

Oxygen masks spring out from an overhead compartment as air
is sucked out of the cockpit...

The plane shudders and jumps badly....

KC-135 PILOT (V.0. RADIO)

Air Force One, back off. I repeat, back off.

Gibbs wrestles with the yoke, to no avail.

                     GIBBS
         She's bucking. I can't hold her!

KC-135 PILOT (V.0. RADIO)

What are you doing? Back off! Back off!

EXT. SKY -

Air Force One jerks upward, snapping off the fueling arm of
the KC-135.

                     KC-135 PILOT
         LOOK OUT!

The broken edge of the fueling arm scrapes along the top of
Air Force One... metal against metal... tearing a gash in
the plane... Sparks fly.

ONE OF THE SPARKS

ignites the river of gasoline being pumped from the refueling
craft's belly.

INT. AIR FORCE ONE, COCKPIT -

Gibbs Sees the fueling arm catch fire. It doesn't take a
rocket scientist to figure what's coming. The flames creep
up toward the gas tanks.

                     GIBBS
         Holy Shiti Gibbs pushes the stick
         down and Air Force One begins to
         dive to safety.

EXT. SKY -

Air Force One descends.

Whipping fire trails the KC-135.

Slowly rolls it way into the plane's main tank.

A burning fuse.

BARRROOOOOOOM! A FIRECLOUD ERUPTS ACROSS THE SKY.

Sky like daylight.

From this incredible firecloud, the burned out skeleton of
an airplane emerges, falling toward earth.

The F-15 escort zoom toward the unexpected fireball.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Everybody break. Now! Now! Now!

Carlton's planes go into emergency climb, standing on their
afterburners to escape the inferno.

INT. EMERGENCY PARACHUTE LAUNCH RAMP -

Marshall hangs on to the strut for dear life as the
pressurized air swooshes by him, taking with it everything
that isn't nailed down including some of the spare parachutes.

Fire rains down from the heavens, the sky like one giant
napalm nightmare.

The shock wave hits the plane, slamming it violently.

Almost yanking the hyraulic arm from Marshall's grasp.

The military aides without parachutes lose their footing and
tumble off the platform. SCREAMING as they fall into fire.

EXT. SKY -

The burning KC-135 shell, an apocalyptic Flying Dutchman in
a vengeful Kamikazee dive at Air Force One.

It's gonna be close.

The flaming shell passes only a few hundred yards to the
rear of the 747.

EXT. PARACHUTE LAUNCH RAMP -

Marshall's got a great view. Flames dance in his eyes as he
watches the refueling plane descend.

The brightness subsides, and the sky grows dark again.

The wave of pressurized air subsides leaving Zedeck, Marshall,
Shepherd and Caldwell on the ramp. Caldwell begins edging
toward Marshall.

                     ZEDECK
         Don't move.

                     MAJOR CALDWELL
         Let me save him.

Marshall barely hangs on.

                     ZEDECK
         That man, he is the president, no?

                     SHEPHERD
         Yes. Yes he is.

Zedeck motions to Caidwell with his gun. "Go get him."

Caldwell crawls down the ramp and extends his hand to
Marshall.

THE PRESSURE DOOR SLAMMING SHUT -

zedeck leads Marshall, shepherd and Caldwell away.

IPRR. AFO'S FLIGHT DECK -

Gibbs steadies the plane.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Fuel?

Gibbs checks the guages.

                     GIBBS
         More than enough to get us home.

EXT. WHITE HOUSE - EVENING

The sun begins to set along the Potomac in long streaks of
red and pink. The White House lights flicker on uminating
the long staunch columns, the pillars of democracy.

RNT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - EVENING

Tired. Strung out. Bickering within the small workgroups.

Chandler crosses to General Northwood, who has just hung up
the phone.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         They still have the President, it's
         past their deadline and they haven't
         called. What do you think it means?

                     GENERAL NORTHWOOD
         Like any good poker player, they're
         checking over their hand seeing which
         cards to play and which to discard.

INT. AFO, MISSION COMMUNICATION CENTER - NIGHT

Zedeck leads the three hostage into the M.C.C.

Rose and Marshall - their eyes meet. Enormous relief for the
both of them. Marshall smiles at his wife, as she fights
back her tears.

                     ALICE
              (to Korshunov)
         He didn't leave us.

                     KORSHUNOV
         You are a resilient man, Mr.

President.

Zedeck grabs Caldwell's hands and tapes them behind his back
with duct tape. Rose and Alice already have their hands taped.

                     KORSHUNQV
         You must forgive the tape, but we
         were starting to feel outnumbered...

Gibbs!

INT. FLIGHT DECK -

Gibbs puts the plane on automatic pilot. Rises to join the
group.

INT. MISSION COMMUNICATIONS CENTER -

Korshunov separates Marshall from his family. Waves him into
the Com Officer's chair. His hands are now wrapped too.

Gibbs enters looking down.

                     MARSHALL
         Special Agent Gibbs. You helped do
         this?

                     GIBBS
         Yes, Mr. President.

                     MARSHALL
         Why?

                     GIBBS
         Because it is my duty.

                     MARSHALL
         You're duty to what? The country you
         served doesn't exist anymore.

                     GIBBS
         My loyalty was never to my country.

I serve my commanding officers.

                     KORSHUNOV
         You don't think the leaders of the
         KGB would allow peristroika to ruin
         years of infiltration? No, when the
         Soviet Union collapsed, we took our
         sleepers with us.

Korshunov holds up a telephone.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Now since we've had very little luck
         getting Washington or Moscow to
         cooperate, I wondered if you would
         be so kind.

                     MARSHALL
         Over my dead body.

                     KORSHUNOV
         No. But since I only have a few of
         your staff left to kill, perhaps I
         will start with your family instead...
         Gibbs.

Gibbs grabs Alice and shoves her into a chair. She fights
him off, and he smacks her across the face and shoves his
gun into her neck.

Marshall and Rose struggle against their bonds.

                     KORSHUNOV
         The world is such a dangerous place
         and we can't always protect our
         children.

                     ROSE
         Please. You can kill me but leave my
         daughter alone.

Korshunov runs his finger down Alice's cheek.

                     MARSHALL
         She isn't a part of this. This is
         between you and me.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Call up Petrov and order
         Stravanavitch' S release.

Marshall looks to Alice, then Rose, then back to Alice.

                     MARSHALL
         This administration does not negotiate
         with terrorists.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Pity. Mr. Gibbs.

Gibbs withdraws his pistol. Places it against Alice's temple.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Perhaps a President does not
         negotiate, but does a father?
              (beat)
         An interesting choice. Your daughter
         versus your world vision. The implicit
         trust of a family against your oath
         of office.

Tears of fears are streaming down Alice's face. She looks
into her father's eyes.

                     ALICE
         Daddy...

                     MARSHALL
         Alice... I...

                     KORSHUNOV
         And once the trigger is pulled, she
         is gone forever. Then, I wonder, how
         do you live, knowing you could've
         saved her?

Marshall struggles with his duty. His honor.

                     KORSHUNOV
         And could you ever forget the look
         on her face as she ceases to exist...
         Late at night, when you think about
         her, will Stravanavitch really matter
         anymore?

Marshall tries to look away, but Zedeck forces him to watch.

                     ALICE
         Daddy. Daddy, please...

                     ROSE
         Jim... for godsake!

                     KORSHUNOV
         Look inside your heart. No one will
         think you weak. Five...

Alice's face, trying to be brave.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Four...

                     ROSE
         Jim...

                     KORSHUNOV
         Three...

Rose looks away.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Two. .

Alice looks at her father for the very last time. Then shuts
her eyes tight.

                     KORSHUNOV
         One...

Gibbs begins to squeeze the trigger.

                     MARSHALL
         NO!

Korshunov smiles.

                     MARSHALL
         Stop.

                     KORSHUNOV
         You'll do it?

                     MARSHALL
         Yes, I'll do it.
              (broken)
         Just leave my family alone.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Good. Good.

Gibbs withdraws the gun from Alice's temple. Alice opens her
eyes and gasps for breath.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Bring him the phone...

You are true to your nature, Mr.

President.

                     MARSHALL
         Someday, you'll regret my nature.

                     KORSHUNOV
         You don't like seeing people get
         hurt. Now in morality, that is a
         virtue. In politics, however, that
         is weakness.
              (beat)
         You were a hostage to everyone else
         *                    long before you
         were a hostage to

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

A sleepless Petrov paces back and forth, smoking a cigarette.

The phone RINGS. He looks up expectantly as his aide answers.

                     AIDE
         Sir, the President of the United
         States wishes to speak with you.

Petrov stops in mid-pace. Considers his cigarette for a moment
and then walks over to the phone.

                     PETROV
         Mr. President.

INT. PRISON CELL - NIGHT

A guard walks down the cold steel hallway. He rattles the
bar of a darkened cage, he pulls out a set of keys and unlocks
the door.

                     GUARD
         Stravanavitch.

Stravanavitch awakes, and leans forward into the light. He
and the guard trade looks. After a beat, the guard turns and
retreats down the the hallway.

Stravanavitch rises from his bunk and approaches the cell
door. He leans against it and it swings open.

INT. M.C.C. - NIGHT

Rose stares at Marshall. Her look is hard to read. Distant...
cold, perhaps.

                     ROSE
         Can my husband sit next to me?

Korshunov considers the pair. Hands taped behind their back.

They're harmless. Korshunov nods.

Marshall rises and joins her on the pilot's rest bunk.

                     ROSE
         I don't know why you stayed.

                     MARSHALL
         Please... don't start with me.

Rose moves closer to him, and speaks in a low voice.

                     ROSE
         There's something I need to tell
         you... and God knows if I'll ever
         get another chance.

From behind, we see her push his taped hands away.

He looks at her quizically.

                     ROSE
         No matter what happens, you have
         been and always will be my hero.

He feels the wall behind him. A dull edge of metal twisted
slightly from the earlier cockpit door explosion.

He understands.

                     MARSHALL
         And you have always been my guardian
         angel.

She smiles back at him.

                     ROSE
         I will never regret my life with
         you.

Behind Marshall's back, he begins to cut away at the duct
tape.

INT. MOSCOW CENTRAL PRISON, HALLWAY - NIGHT

Ivan Stravanavitch walks down the long prison hallway. Other
PRISONERS see him and begin banging on their bars in rhythm.

As he parades down the corridor, the banging grows until it
becomes deafening. Stravanavitch smiles a cocky smile.

One by one, guard doors swing open in front of him. In fact,
a few of the HACKS salute Stravanavitch as he passes.

INT. MISSION COMMUNICATION CENTER - AIR FORCE ONE

The communication board beeps and Zedeck picks up the line.

He exchanges some words with the caller in Russian, then
hangs up the phone.

                     SERGE
         It's confirmed. Stravanavitch is on
         his way out. Our men are waiting
         outside.

Korshunov smiles and puts his hand on Zedeck's shoulder.

                     ROSE
         You got what you wanted. You going
         to release us now?

                     KORSHUNOV
         You're very valuable. And our nation
         needs so many things.

Marshall leans his head against the wall. Just as he expected.

                     MARSHALL
         Could I... Could I have some water?

Korshunov nods, motions Zedeck to take care of it. Zedeck
reluctanty descends to the main cabin.

                     KORSHUNOV
         The taste of defeat is bitter, no?

                     MARSHALL
         One thing I've learned as

President... all defeats are temporary and all victories are
temporary. Today' 5 conquerers are tomorrow's vanquished.

                     KORSHUNOV
         e                    Very poetic.

Zedeck arrives with a glass of water.

                     MARSHALL
         And there's one thing I've learned
         from being a sports fan.

Zedeck brings the cup of water to Marshall's lips. Marshall
tips his head back to receive it.

                     KORSHUNOV
         And that is?

Water spills over Marshall's face. He shakes it off.

                     MARSHALL
         It ain't over, til it's over.

With blinding speed, Marshall leaps to his feet and swings
his arm around Zedeck's throat. He snaps Zedeck's neck with
quiet efficency.

Gibbs fires at Marshall, but Marshall, using Zedeck as a
shield, grabs hold of the terrorist'sMP5 and lets loose...
mowing down the former Secret Service agent.

The rest of Gibb's shots pelt against the cockpit controls
sending showers of sparks flying.

Korshunov whips out his gun and lines up a clean shot at
Marshall's head.

                     MAJOR CALDWELL
         Mr. President.

Korshunov fires at Marshall, but...

Major Caidwell dives in front of the bullet spray taking the
rounds in his chest.

Marshall turns his aim to Korshunov... but Korshunov grabs
Alice and presses his pistol to her head.

Stand-off.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Don't be hasty.

Marshall holds Korshunov in his sights. Slowly advancing.

                     KORSHUNOV
         You love your daughter, Mr.

President. And I love my country.

It's a fair trade.

Korshunov backs away to the steps. Marshall does not lower
his gun. Korshunov disappears down the staircase.

                     MARSHALL
         Shepherd.

                     SHEPHERD
         Sir...

Shepherd stands. Marshall unwraps Shepherd's hands.

                     MARSHALL
         Call Petrov...
              (to Rose)
         I'll be back.

                     ROSE
         Both of you.

Marshall slowly descends the steps to the main cabin. As
soon as Shepherd gets her hands loose, Rose rushes to
Caidwell's aid. Shepherd crosses to the communications panel
and picks up a headset. Begins dialing numbers

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

In his nightdress, Stoli Petrov nurses a vodka on ice. His

PHONE RINGS.

                     PETROV
         Petrov.

Petrov's eyes widen.

EXT. MOSCOW PRISON EXERCISE YARD - NIGHT

A wall of bars part and Stravanavitch walks through. Into
the main exercise yard.

The main gate separates him from...

A group of men wait in the street by a limousine.

The main gate opens slowly.

When the men sees Stravanavitch they come to attention and
salute him. Stravanavitch returns the salute. And then starts
his march toward his limousine...

A SIREN WAILS. LIGHTS FLOOD THE INSIDE AND OUTSIDE OF THE
PRISON.

The front gate begins to close. Worry crosses Stravanavitch's
face. His men rush toward him, take position by the gate.

Stravanavitch breaks into a run toward his limousine.

                     GUARD
         Halt! Halt!

Stravanvitch looks behind him. Guards rushing toward him
from the yard... the limousine fifty yards ahead of him...
closing fast...

On the limo... the back door open and waiting.

A shot rings out from the guard tower, followed by another,
and another. Like popcorn starting to pop. Stravanavitch's
men return fire. A minor war breaks out. Loyal guards battling
Stravanavitch sympathizers.

Stravanavitch caught in the middle, hit by one bullet, then
another, then another. He makesit to the open rear door of
the limousine, but collapses dead.

Everyone stops firing. Stravanavitch's men rush to his side..

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Petrov slips under the covers as an aide knocks on his door.

                     PETROV
         What is it?

                     AIDE
         It's about Stravanvaitch.

                     PETROV
         What about him?

                     AIDE
         He's dead, sir. Shot while trying to
         escape.

A beat.

                     PETROV
         So be it. The world will sleep easier.

Petrov turns out his bedside light.

INT. AIR FORCE ONE, MAIN CABIN - NIGHT

Marshall ascends down from the upper deck. Spots Korshunov
by the front stairway. Korshunov pushes Alice down the stairs
to the underdeck.

INT. COCKPIT - NIGHT

Autopilot engaged. A shower of sparks erupts from one of the
bulletholes in the panel.

Directional compass... the course heading drifts off to the
south.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

The squadron of F-15 still surround Air Force One, which
slowly banks to one side.

INT. F-15 COCKPIT - NIGHT

                     COL. CARLTON
         They've changed their bearing.
              (into headset)
         Air Force One. Air Force One.

Over... Air Force One please respond...

                     FIGHTER PILOT #1
         Sir, this new bearing. We're headed
         for Iraq, sir.

INT. PILOT'S REST AREA.

Unaware of the course drift, Shepherd and Rose lift Caldwell
onto a bunk.

                     ROSE
         Easy, Major. Easy.

                     MAJOR CALDWELL
         The President?

                     ROSE
         You saved his life.

Caidwell smiles, settles peacefully back in the cot. He dies.

Rose reaches up and shuts his eyes.

INT. LOWER GALLEY - NIGHT

Marshall makes his way through the dimness. Stepping
cautiously.

A shot rings out and richochets off a piece of piping right
over Marshall's head.

Undaunted Marshall advances.

                     MARSHALL
         It's over, Korshunov. You won. Now
         let her go.

He listens, footsteps ahead of him.

ON Korshunov - holding Alice by her hair, practically dragging
her over the mid-section wing cross-braces.

As Marshall appears in the gangway he fires off another shot,
hitting a cooling vent. Steam fills the' gangway area, bathed
in red auxiliary lighting.

Korshunov retreats toward the rear of the plane.

                     MARSHALL (O.S.)
         There's nowhere to go.

INT. CONTROL TOWER - NIGHT

SUPER - "HUSSEIN AIR BASE, NORTHERN IRAQ"

A cacophony of Arabic. The radar indicates an apparent
invasion force heading for its borders.

EXT. AIR FIELD - NIGHT

Iraqi pilots rush to their MiGs.

INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM -

All eyes on the tactical display... Air Force One's course
has arced south and the plane is heading straight for Iraq.

                     GENERAL NORTHWOOD
         They aren't answering their hails.

                     DEAN
         This doesn't make sense.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         How close are they?

GENERAL NORTHiqOOD Fifteen miles, so two minutes.

                     LEE
         The Iraqi Ambassador won't take our
         calls. We're trying to get through
         to their Central Command.

                     DEAN
         To tell them what? The great infidel
         himself is flying overhead, Go get
         him? This is a man they burn in effigy
         daily.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         If challenged, our fighters are to
         state that they are on a rescue
         mission.

                     GENERAL NORTHWOOD
         Iraqi's won't buy it. Either they're
         already in on this or they'll think
         we're spying.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         If fired upon, tell our fighters
         that they are ordered to engage.

INT. REAR BAGGAGE HOLD - NIGHT

Marshall checks behind the racks of stored goods and luggage.

P.O.V. LOOKING DOWN A GUNSIGHT AS MARSHALL WALKS INTO THE

open.

A finger on the trigger.

                     ALICE
         Dad, look out.

Korshunov fires and Marshall dives out of the way. He cones
up in defensive crouch ready to shoot, but all he can see is
Alice.

                     MARSHALL
         How you doing, sweetie?

                     ALICE
         Been better, Dad... You?

Marshall smiles briefly. But Alice is yanked around the
corner. Marshall hears foatsteps. He junps to his feet and
cautiously follows.

INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - EVENING

On the tactical display as a second group of fighters appear.
ready to challenge the F-l5's.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

Air Force One and the cluster of F-15's zoom by.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Air Force one... please respond. Air
         Force One, you are entering hostile
         air space. Air Force one...

All Carlton receives is static.

INT. AFO'S COCKPIT.

Nobody at the wheel. The automatic pilot is still engaged.

INT. F-15 EAGLE COCKPIT.

Con. CARLTON Okay, guys, time to earn your paychecks. Stay
in protective formation, and do not engage, I repeat, do not
engage... unless you are fired upon. All wings acknowledge.

                     FIGHTER PILOT #1
         Halo one, acknowledged.

                     FIGHTER PILOT #2
         Halo two, acknowledged.

The rest of the pilots chime in.

INT. AIR FORCE ONE, LOWER AFT GALLEY - NIGHT

Marshall swings into the cubicle... empty.

He crosses to the cargo bay/parachute launch ramp hatchway.

Looks through the porthole.

Korshunov straps on one of the few remaining parachutes. He
tosses the rest of the spares out onto the platform.

Marshall steps onto the platform. Korshunov fires off a round
forcing him behind the door for cover.

Korshunov pulls Alice in front of him and yanks down the
ramp activation lever.

                     KORSHUNOV
         Stay where you are.

The ramp lowers, and Alice gets her first look at the drop.

Marshall watches the remaining parachutes slide off the ramp
and into the stormy sky.

                     KORSHUNOV
         There goes your ride.

                     MARSHALL
         Let my daughter go or I'll take you
         out!

                     KORSHUNOV
         If you put down the gun, I promise
         not to drop her on the way down.

Korshunov backs toward the edge of the ramp, pulling a
struggling and fighting Alice.

                     MARSHALL
         Let her go now! Or I will kill you.

Korshunov is a foot away from the edge of the ramp... two
steps back, he and Alice will take the plunge.

Marshall lines up his shot. Korshunov laughs as he presses
his pistol to Alice's ear.

                     KORSHUNOV
         No you won't. You'll compromise...
         like always.

                     MARSHALL
         Hold on, Alice.

Marshall fires, his bullet ripping apart a good deal of
Korshunov's face and snapping his body back.

Korshunov tumbles off the platform, but his limbs are caught.
in Alice's. She's knocked to her belly and his dead weight
drags her off the edge of the platform.

                     ALICE
         NO!

Marshall dives down the sloping platform, reaching out for
her...

Alice tries to grip the platform with her hands, but she
can't hold on. Her hand slip off the metallic lip.

But as she falls, she's caught by the wrist. Strong arms
pull her up. Her father's arms. He carries her back to the
safety of the plane. She's sobs uncontrollably.

                     ALICE
         Oh NY god... oh my god... oh my god...

                     MARSHALL
         It's okay, honey. I got you. I got
         you. You're okay.

Shepherd and Rose appear. Marshall locks eyes with Rose...
smiles. Shepherd crosses to the parachute bins.

                     MARSHALL
         Gone. They're all gone.

The plane shakes with the thunder of a supersonic boom.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

A half dozen MiGs race by the cluster of American aircraft
at breakneck speeds.

INT. IRAQI CONTROL TOWER - NIGHT

GENERAL CERALLOS eyes the radar.

                     IRAQI SOLDIER
         The Americans say they are escorting
         a damaged plane. Our pilots confirm
         they are surrounding a 747.

                     CERALLOS
         Did we warn them off?

                     IRAQI SOLDIER
         Yes. They refused to alter course
         and the 747 would not answer our
         hails.

Cerallos takes a moment, looking at the screen.

                     CERALLOS
         It's some kind of trick... a
         preliminary airstrike in response to
         our troop movement.

                     IRAQI SOLDIER
         They are in our airspace. We would
         be within our rights.

                     CERALLOS
         The world would not look on us kindly
         if we shot down a civilian airliner.

The Soldier listens to chatter coning over his headset.

                     IRAQI SOLDIER
         The pilot says it is does not have
         the markings of a commercial jet.

                     CERALLOS
         Warn then again. If they don't
         respond... shoot them down. We will
         not be intimidated.

EXT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

INT. MISSION COMMUNICATION CENTER - NIGHT

Another sonic boom.

                     MARSHALL
         What is that sound?

Marshall makes his way to the cockpit.

Through the cockpit window, a MiG accelerates out of the
darkness coming straight at us. At the last second it pulls
up slightly, riding over the top of the 747.

Its sonic boom rocks the jumbo jet.

                     MARSHALL
         My god. I think that was a MiG.

                     SHEPHERD
         A MiG? Where the hell are we?

Marshall rushes back to one of the rear upper deck windows.

He looks out at the F-l5s.

                     MARSHALL
         They're flying a protection formation.
              (beat)
         Call D.C. Find out what's going on.

INT. COCKPIT, F-15 EAGLE - NIGHT

                     MIS PILOT (V.0.)
         This is your last warning. You are
         violating our airspace. Leave
         immediately.

                     COL. CARLTON
         I said back off and hold your fire.

We are on a rescue mission. Do not engage. I repeat, do not
engage.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

A MiG loops into position behind Carlton.

INT. MIG COCKPIT - NIGHT

switches his targeting computer on. Finds carlton in his
sights. Good tone.

The pilot pulls the trigger.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

The missile detaches from the MiG and slides toward Carlton.

Carlton breaks formation, leading the missile astray. His
plane tucks into a tight little roll. The missile misses
over Carlton's rolling wings.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Halo Team, this is group leader.

Halo Team is cleared to engage. I repeat, you are cleared to
engage.

Carlton pulls his plane into a monster climb.

                     COL. CARLTON
         This is the real thing boys. Let's
         fly and fry.

INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - NIGHT

A ringing phone is answered by an aide. A few beats.

                     AIDE
         It's the Chief of Staff calling...
         from Air Force One. They've retaken
         control of the aircraft.

                     GENERAL NORTHWOOD
         Then tell him to get the fuck out of
         Iraq.

INT. COCKPIT - NIGHT

Marshall settles into the pilot's chair. Shepherd comes in.

                     SHEPHERD
         Iraq, sir. We're over Iraq.

                     MARSHALL
         Iraq? Shep, you're fired.

Marshall looks at the plane's bearing. The instruments are
shot to hell.

                     MARSHALL
         Shit.

                     SHEPHERD
         How long's it been since you flew,
         sir?

                     MARSHALL
         Twenty-five years.

EXT. SKY -

An F-15 follows a MiG into a barrel roll.

INT. MIG COCKPIT - NIGHT

The MIG pilot targets Air Force One. He cuts his speed as he
lines up his shot. Gets a lock.

                     MIG PILOT
              (arabic/subtitle)
         I have radar lock on the 747.

INT. COCKPIT - AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

On tactical computer -   "RADAR LOCK"

                "Dis-Engaging Auto-pilot"

The plane banks left into a dive. Marshall grabs the yoke.

INT. MIG COCKPIT -

Finger on the trigger.

                     MIG PILOT
         It's evading. Can I take the shot?

                     MIG LEADER (V.0.)
         Take the shot.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

Looking forward from underneath an F-15, the MiG heads toward
Air Force One. The F-15 fires a sidewinder.

On the MIG... as it fires its missile. The F-15's sidewinder
blows the MIG up, taking the missile with it.

Air Force One is clear... for the time being.

INT. AIR FORCE ONE, COCKPIT - NIGHT

MARSHALL STRUGGLES TO REGAIN CONTROL OF THE 747. HE OVER-

compensates and the plane rocks side-to-side.

                     ROSE
         What are you doing?

                     MARSHALL
         Flying the plane.

                     ROSE
         You haven't even driven a car since
         you took office.

Marshall checks out the tactical display.

                     MARSHALL
         I'm sure it's like riding a bicycle...
         downhill with no brakes and somebody
         shooting at you.

Marshall finds the throttle, pushes it up all the way. He
feels the plane out, gently nudges it into a turn.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

Two MiGs flare out of an engagement with the F-15's and break
toward Air Force One.

                     COL. CARLTON
         We got two on the loose. Someone get
         on them.

                     FIGHTER PILOT #2
         Halo Two... I can't get there in
         time.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Bullshit. Do it.

The two MiGs lock onto Air Force One. Each fires a missile
at the President's plane, before breaking in opposite
directions.

INT. AFO COCKPIT - NIGHT

A red buzz. It's all Marshall can do to keep the plane flying
straight.

                     MARSHALL
         We got two coming at us!

Tactical Countermeasures Computer... as it tracks the
incomings...

                      "Heat Seekers"

                    "Launching Flares"

EXT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

Brightly burning flares launch from either side of Air Force
One's wings and descend toward earth.

The missiles follow the heat of the flares, plummeting
harmlessly to earth.

INT. AIR FORCE ONE COCKPIT - NIGHT

The shock waves from a nearby MiG explosion shakes the plane.

In the aftermath, Marshall takes a moment and pulls on the
pilot's headset.

                     MARSHALL
         U.S. Pilots, this is Air Force One.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Copy Air Force One. Welcome to the
         party.

FIGHTER PILOT #1 (V.0.)

I'm on it.

INT. AFO COCKPIT - NIGHT'

                     MARSILALL
         Can you... can you drop in front of
         me? I'll follow you out.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Hang tough, I'm on my way.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

On the two MiG's heading for Air Force One.

An F-15 drops in behind them. The MiGs scissor and break in
OPPosite directions. The F-l5 can only follow one of them.

                     FIGHTER PILOT 11
         I'm tight on one, the other's loose.

I need help down here.

The other MiG comes up on the 747 and opens fire with his
CANNONS. The shells rip up the surface of the aircraft's
wing. The MiG swoops past Air Force One and jerks into a *
vertical.

On the damaged wing - Fuel starts leaking out and the outer
jet engine catches fire.

INT. COCKPIT, AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

Red warning light flashes on the control panel.

                     MARSHALL
         We're hit. We've got an engine on
         fire.

                     COT. CAALTON (V.0.)
         Shut it down. Shut it down.

Marshall reaches over and toggles the shutoff switch.

EXT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

The engine whirs to a halt and the rushing wind blows out
the fire. But now she's only got three engines.

INT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

Through the cockpit window, an F-15 settles in front of Air
Force One... Flames pouring out of its tail. Under any other
condition, it would be pretty. Alice, Rose and Shepherd watch
Marshall fly.

                     MARSHALL
         This is President Marshall. I know
         you guys are busy, but we need some
         help here.

INT. CARLTON'S F-15 COCKPIT - NIGHT

Canton in pursuit of a Mis.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Mr. President, it's an honor. Now
         with your permission can we lead you
         the fuck out of here.

                     MARSHALL
         You read my mind.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Put your pilot on.

                     MARSHALL
         He's busy being dead.

Carlton breaks left, lines up a MiG and fires. He nails the
Iraqi aircraft.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Who's flying the fucking plane?

                     MARSHALL
         I'm doing what I can.

                     COL. CAELTON
         Can you, can you change your heading
         to Zero Four One point six?

                     MARSHALL
         Negative. We've lost navagition. I
         don't know where that is.

Buzzer sounds in Carlton's cockpit. He's been locked on.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Oh shit. Hang on. Somebody help me
         out. I got one up my ass.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

Carlton puts his plane into a triple canopy roll then slams
on his airbreaks. The MiS shoots by him and Carlton lets
loose with his CANNONS. The MiG pulls up and disengages.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Two and three are heading toward the
         Boeing.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Okay. We're gonna arc a fat one to
         the right. Got it?

                     MARSHALL
         Got it.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Stay cool.

Canton's plane edges around to the right... and Marshall
follows. The 747 leans at an angle and continues the turn
until the F-15 is dead ahead. Another plane explodes ahead
of him at three o'clock.

                     MARSHALL
         How we doing, Colonel?

                     COL. CARLTON
         We still got three MiGs running around
         and six more on the way.

Can't you fly any faster?

IRA'. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - NIGHT

All eyes are glued to the tactical screen, showing the
dogfight. They listen to the radio traffic.

                     MARSHALL
         We're at full throttle.

FIGHTER PILOT #1 (V.0.)

Air Force One, MiGs four and five are on your tail.

                     MARSHALL
         Well get `em off me, goddamnit.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

Two MiGs targeting the big bird.

                     FIGHTER PILOT #1
         I can't get a lock. Break right.

Break right.

INT. AFO COCKPIT - NIGHT

Marshall struggles with his stick turning the aircraft to
the right.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

Of course its pointless. The Boeing is a fucking sloth
compared to these fighters.

INT. AIR FORCE ONE COCKPIT - NIGHT

The familiar buzz. Tactical computer. "RADAR LOCK"

Alice notices the computer. At the upper right hand of the
screen, the computer displays Defensive Mode/Offensive Mode.

Defensive Mode is highlighted.

                     ALICE
         Daddy, look. It says...

Alice reaches out and touches the screen.

                     MARSHALL
         Not now, pumpkin.

Alice's touch activates offensive mode.

EXT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

Along the belly of the aircraft, two hatches pivot open,
revealing a series of missiles.

SKY - AS THE F-15 JOCKEYS WITH THE `NO MIGS

                     FIGHTER PILOT #1
         I can't get good tone.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Take the shot.

The F-15 fires, but the Sidewinder screams past the turning
HiGs.

INT. AIR FORCE ONE, COCKPIT - NIGHT

Tactical computer... Over graph display.

"Offensive Counter Measures Activatedw "Launching Missiles"

ERR. AIR FORCE ONE -

The Flying White House launches two sparrow missiles. The
MiGs release flares, but the Sparrows don't flinch.

Twin FIREBALLS erupt in the sky as the Mics evaporate.

But from the fireball, a MISSILE emerges coming right at Air
Force One.

Closing fast.

                     FIGHTER PILOT #2
         Boss, they got one off.

INT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

On the console... sparks fly.

Tactical computer flashes... "SYSTEM FAILURE"

                     "Missile Locked"

MARSHMj What did you touch? What did you touch!?

                     ALICE
         Nothing!

Marshall checks display.

                     MARSHALL
         Oh shit. It's got us.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

The missile has Air Force One dead to rights, crawling right
up its tail pipe.

Just before its about to hit the plane...

                     FIGHTER PILOT 11
         YAAAAAAAAH!

An F-15 swoops up from below. Like a Secret Service agent
during an assassination attempt...

The F-15 takes the bullet in its mid-section. BOOM!

The blast slams bits of the fighter plane against Air Force
One. Rocking it badly. Chunks of the plane rip away metal
sheeting on the 747's wings and tail section.

INT. F-15 COCKPIT - NIGHT

                     COL. CARLTON
         We got six more bogeys, closing fast
         from the south.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

A squadron of Navy F-14s drops into the theatre. The cavalry.

NAVY SQUADRON LEADER (V.0.)

You Air Force boys get that plane out of here. We'll take
care of those MiGs.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Roger that. Kick ass, Navy.

NAVY SQUADRON LEADER (V.0.)

That's affirmative.

INT. COCKPIT - NIGHT

Marshall works the controls of the 747. Tries to engage the
automatic pilot. The system is fried. Marshall wrestles with
the yoke.

                     MARSHALL
         Uh, we got a problem here.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Just stay on my wing, sir. I'll take
         you all the way in.

                     MARSHALL
         No. We're losing fuel and my rudder's
         not responding.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Lemme take a look.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

Canton pulls up and drops back over the plane. He looks down
at the Boeing's wing.

                     COL. CARLTON
         Aw, man. You're torn up pretty bad
         out here, sir. Do you have any
         elevater control.

                     MARSHALL
         Sluggish... I think it's jammed too.

INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - NIGHT

                     COL. CARLTON
         Uh, Tower, we got a problem up here.

Sir, I got some bad news. Air Force One... there's no way
they can bring it down. Plane's damaged, it's unlandable.

INT. AIR FORCE ONE, COCKPIT - NIGHT

Marshall looks out the side cockpit window, sees Carlton's F-
15 fly steady with his.

                     COL. CARLTON
         I'm sorry, sir.

Carlton salutes Marshall. Marshall returns it.

                     MARSHALL
         Thanks for your help, Colonel.

INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - NIGHT

General Northwood collapses into his chair.

                     GENERAL NORTHWOOD
         They've got no chutes. They can't
         control the plane, their engines are
         failing and they're losing fuel.

                     DEAN
         I prefered the terrorists.

                     GENERAL NORTHWOOD
         That's game, set, and match. There's
         nothing to do, except call the Chief
         Justice.

                     V.P. CHANDLER
         The Chief Justice? What on earth
         for?

                     GENERAL NORTHWOOD
         To swear you in as President.

Dead silence in the room.

General Greely ambles over to the tactical map and just stares
at it. He loosens his tie and scratches his head.

                     GENERAL GREELY
         Where's your strike team, General?

                     GENERAL NORTHWOOD
         On their way back to Turkey. Why?

                     GENERAL GREELY
         I just had the craziest idea.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

KC-lO Transport plane.

KC-lO PILOT Romeo Tango Zulu. We copy. Change of Orders
acknowledged. We are en route.

The KC-lO banks into a turn.

INT. COCKPIT, AIR FORCE ONE - MIGHT

Alice, Rose and Shepherd stand behind the pilot's seat.

                     MARSHALL
              (into header)
         Is it our only option? - Then do it.

Marshall looks to the others.

                     MARSHALL
         We're now over the Black Sea, so
         even if they could get us chutes
         we'd drown or die of hypothermia

before they could get to us. We've got one other option
though...

EXT. WHITE HOUSE - NIGHT

Standard news shot. CNN REPORTER facing the camera.

                     REPORTER
         incredible, yet unconfirmed reports,
         of White House staff members
         parachuting from the plane while the
         President himself battled these
         terrorists.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

A family gathers around their T.V. set to hear the report.

                     REPORTER (TELEVISION)
         Yet now, in a bizarre twist of events,
         CNN has learned that Air Force One
         has been severly crippled and is
         virtually unlandable and our sources
         report that the First Family is
         trapped onboard.  A daring mid-air
         rescue operation is said to be
         underway.

INT. COCKPIT, AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

                     MARSHALL
         How long's it been?

                     SHEPHERD
         Twenty five minutes. They should be
         here any moment.

                     MARSHALL
         They better. Fuel's almost gone.

Up ahead, navagation lights.

                     ALICE
         There they are!

                     MARSHALL
         Okay, I'm slowing us down.

INT. MAIN CABIN - NIGHT

Shepherd crosses to the forward cabin door. He follows
directions for emergency door release.

EXT. AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

The emergency door opens and the emergency raft/slide deploys.
It inflates before being ripped from the aircraft, gently
wafting through stormy clouds.

INT. MAIN CABIN - NIGHT

Air rushes past the airplane at two hundred miles an hour.

                     SHEPHERD
         IT'S OPEN!

INT. COCKPIT -

                     MARSHALL
         DO YOU SEE TEEM?

INT. CABIN - NIGHT

                     ROSE (O.S.)
         CAN YOU SEE THEM?

Shepherd looks out into the night sky. Inky blackness and
greying clouds. The horizon, though, lightens as dawn
approaches.

Shepherd spots navigational lights descending from above.

                     SHEPHERD
         HERE THEY COME!

EXT. KC-LO TRANSPORT - NIGHT

It's side cargo door is wide open. Army Rangers begin winching
out three-inch wide cable.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

The KC-lO pratically on top of Air Force One. Separated by
forty feet. Super flying.

The cable slaps against the side of Air Force One and drags
along it's edge. As it slides past the open doorway, Shepherd
grabs it and hauls it into the plane until he has its end.
He hooks the cable to a metal clasp at the top of the door
frame.

                     SHEPHERD
         WE'RE HOOKED!

INT. AIR FORCE ONE COCKPIT -

                     MARSHALL
         We're hooked. Hove into position.

                     KC-LO PILOT (RADIO)
         Romeo Tango Zulu, acknowledged. We
         are assuming position.

A red light flashes on the control panel. Engine number two
grinds to a halt. The pressure guages drop to zero.

                     MARSHALL
         Get going. We don't have much time
         left.

Rose bends down and kisses Marshall on the cheek.

                     ROSE
         I love you. I just wanted you to
         know that.

Marshall holds her with his eye.

                     MARSHALL
         I love you too.
              (beat)
         We're going to make it.

Alice throws her arms around her father.

                     ALICE
         My school play's Tuesday night.

Promise me you'll be there.

                     MARSHALL
         I promise.

Guages show fuel is low on the remaining turbofans.

EXT. SKY -

The transport plane dips into a lateral position. The two
planes are connected by a hundred yards of cable.

FIVE ARMY RANGERS in snatch harnesses slide down the cable
bridge onto Air Force Onefr As they hit the open doorway,
they unclip and sail into the main cabin.

                     ARMY RANGER #1
         Let's get you folks out of here.

INT. DEPARTMENT STORE - EVENING

Electronics department. Banks of television sets. Shoppers
watch intently. The audio broadcast plays over a map of the
region and a graphic of Air Force One.

                     KC-LO PILOT (V.0.)
         Tower, Air Force One has been boarded.

                     TOWER (V.0.)
         Romeo Tango Zulu, copy One the
         television, graphics of the First
         Family against the Presidential Seal.

                     REPORTER
         You're listening to an intercepted
         audio feed of radio communications
         between Air Force One and Army Special
         Forces, flying side-by-side,
         attempting to get the first family
         off the damaged aircraft.

INT. MAIN CABIN -

Three Army Rangers harness themselves `to the survivors. One
to Alice, one to Rose and one to Shepherd. The other two
head for the cockpit.

Alice and her Ranger are ready.

                     ARMY RANGER
         We're set.

                     ALICE
         Mon...

                     ROSE
         You can do it, baby.

                     ARMY RANGER
         Hold on tight. The first step's a
         bitch.

Alice takes a deep breath, closes her eyes...

The soldier clips on the cable, and shoves off the lip of
the doorway, SAILING DOWN THE WIRE.

They plummet, Alice screaming. The line goes taut.

The pair slide the hundred yards to the KC-lO. Rangers grab
them and bring them into the transport.

INT. DEPARTMENT STORE - EVENING

Shoppers listen to television sets, galvanized.

KC-lO PILOT The first daughter is on-board.

INT. COCKPIT, AIR FORCE ONE - NIGHT

With a smile.

                     MARSHALL
         Acknowledged.

Two Army Rangers approach the cockpit.

                     ARMY RANGER #1
         Mr. President!

Army Ranger #2 slides into the co-pilot's seat.

                     ARMY RANGER #2
         I'll take it, sir. You get going.

INT. MAIN CABIN - NIGHT

Rose clips on to a Ranger's harness.

                     ROSE
         Ready!

They clip on the wire, move to the lip, and rappel off the
side of the plane.

INT. AFO UPPER DECK - NIGHT

As the first Ranger leads Marshall through the M.C.C.

WHEN A SHOT RINGS OUT...

The soldier at the flight yoke slumps over dead.

Marshall and the first Ranger swing around to see...

A bloody but smiling Gibbs, lying on the deck, clutching an

MP5.

The Ranger draws his weapon...

But Gibbs swings his rifle around. Pulls the trigger. BAM.

BAM. BAM. Hitting the Ranger.

The Ranger returns fire, shooting round after round at Gibbs
before pitching over, dead.

Gibbs draws a bead on the President, smiles... but he doesn't
have any strength left to pull the trigger. He expires.

And the plane begins to dive. Marshall runs for the cockpit.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

Rose and her Ranger are pulled aboard the transport.

INT. MAIN CABIN -

Shepherd and his Ranger clip onto the wire, but the KC-lO is
now higher than Air Force One.

INT. AFO COCKPIT -

With Marshall back at the yoke.

                     KC-LO PILOT
         Air Force One, you're losing altitude.

                     MARSHALL
         I can't hold it!

HANG ON.   KC-LO PILOT (V.0.)

EXT. SN - NIGHT

The KC-lO transport dips lower and lower, trying to maintain
its position under the descending plane.

                     KC-LO PILOT
         Tower, Romeo Tango Zulu. The First
         Lady is onboard. Air Force One,
         status?

                     MARSHALL
         We've lost two of your men. There's
         no one to fly the plane.

                     KC-L0 PILOT (V.0.)
         We can send another one over.

                     MARSHALL
         No time. I only have one engine left.

INT. MAIN CABIN - NIGHT

                     ARMY RANGER
         Come on!

                     SHEPHERD
         What about the President?

                     ARMY RANGER
         He's on his way.

With the KC-lO back in the Position, Shepherd and his Ranger
shove off the dying plane toward safety.

TNT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - NIGHT

                     KC-L0 PILOT
         The Chief of Staff is onboard. We
         are at six thousand feet descending
         rapidly.

Everyone's biting their nails.

TNT. AIR FORCE ONE COCKPIT - NIGHT

                     MARSHALL
         I can't stabilize it.

                     KC-LO PILOT
         Sir, we're going to pound pavement
         in less than three minutes.

Marshall holds the yoke in one hand and unclips the snatch
harness from the dead ranger in the co-pilot's seat.

The last red light on the engine control panel starts to
flash.

                     MARSHALL
         I'M LOSING NUMBER FOUR!

Marshall, still fighting the yoke, stands. He takes a deep
breatn, drops the wheel and runs like a motherfucker for the
stairs.

EXT. SICY,  AIR FORCE ONE.

Drops into a banking twist.

The cable line runs taut.

The KC-lO tries to compensate.

                     TNT. CABIN
         Marshall dives down the stairs from
         the upper deck, comes up sprinting
         for the door.

TNT. AIR FORCE ONE, COCKPIT -

Engine four fails.

INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM -

                     KC-1O PILOT (V.0.)
         She's out of control. I can't pace
         her.

INT. MAIN CABIN -

The taut straining cable snaps one corner of the metal clasp.

The clasp starts to bend.

IN SLOW MOTION -

MARSHALL sprinting to the open door.

The clasp twisting. The cable hook ready to slip of f it.

Marshall clips on, and dives out of the door. He slides forty
feet down, when....

The clasp gives. The cable line snaps away from the plane...
one end connected to the KC-l0, the other connected to...

Nothing.

EXT. SKY

Marshall slides down the cable, gripping at it, trying to
break his fall.

Air Force One plummets toward the water.

Marshall sliding, right behind it, running out of cable.

At the end of his rope, literally. Marshall's harness snags
on the end clasp. He hangs on for dear life.

Moments later Air Force One impacts.

A huge EXPLOSION, water and flames blows sky high into the
night.

INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM -

                     KC-LO PILOT
         Tower. Air Force One is down...

INT. SPORTS BAR - EVENING

Dead silence as all the patrons stare up at the T.V.

                     KC-1O PILOT
         I repeat, Air Force One is down.

                     TOWER
         Romeo Tango Zulu. Do you have the
         President?

No response...

INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - NIGHT

                     TOWER
         Romeo Tango Zulu, please respond. Do
         you have the President? Over.

Still no response...

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

The massive fireball and glowing remains of the Presidential
aircraft almost reaches up to where the President struggles
to hold on to the end of the cable.

INT. KC-LO TRANSPORT

                     ARMY RANGER
         Winch it up! Winch it up!

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

Marshall slipping off the line, unable to get a solid hold.

His hands slick with blood.

The belly of the KC-lO gets closer and closer.

                     MARSHALL
         Come on. Ten mare seconds.

He closes his eyes. His fingers begin to give.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

All over America, families, gathered around their televisions,
wait.

                     TOWER
         Romeo Tango Zulu, do you have the
         President? Over.

                     KC-LO PILOT
         Stand by.

INT. DEPARTMENT STORE - NIGHT

                     TOWER
         Romeo Tango Zulu1 this is Tower.

Please report. over.

INT. WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM - NIGHT

A long beat of silence, then...

                     TOWER
         Romeo Tango Zulu, do you copy? Do
         you have the President?

Another long beat.

                     KC-LO PILOT
         We copy. Stand by...
              (beat)
         Tower?

                     TOWER
         Tower, here.

                     KC-LO PILOT
         This is Romeo Tango Zulu changing
         call signs.
              (beat)
         Tower, alert air traffic, Romeo Tango
         Zulu is now Air Force One.
              (beat)
         This is Air Force One... The President
         is safe onboard.

                     TOWER
         Copy, Air Force One.

Cheers flood the situation room.

Cheers flood the Department Store.

Cheers flood the press room, the living room, the sports
bars, churches, schools, construction sites, hospitals...
all across America.

INT. KC-1O HOLD - DAWN

Marshall huddles tight with Rose and Alice as a MEDIC attends
to their wounds.

                     ARMY RANGER
         Mr. President?

Marshall turns to see this soldier, a fresh-faced, 19-year-
old kid, saluting his Commander-in-chief.

                     ARMY RANGER
         Welcome aboard, sir.

Marshall returns the salute.

EXT. SKY - DAWN

The KC-1O soars into the emerging sunrise, flying in the
center of the remaining F-l5 formation.

 We see:

EXT. AN ANT MOUND - DAY

The camera swoops towards the entrance, then dives inside,
past a couple of tough-looking soldier ants who stand at the
gates of the ant colony like insect bouncers...into an access
tunnel that snakes this way and that, past a row of ants
plodding along...

...and into the MAIN CHAMBER of the colony, a huge, teeming
vista that seems to stretch away forever, filled with ants
rushing here and there on their business.  We see -- a
"traffic cop" directing foot traffic, waving his arms like
crazy so both sides move at once -- a column of soldier ants
marching along in formation -- a chain of ants letting down
a matchbox elevator filled with workers.

                 Z (V.O.)
       ...which is kind of a problem, since
       I've always felt uncomfortably in
       crowds.

INT. MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR'S OFFICE - DAY

We join Z, a worker ant with issues.  He's lying on a couch,
recounting his woes.

                 Z
       I feel...isolated.  Different.  I've
       got abandonment issues.  My father
       flew away when I was just a larva.
       My mother didn't have much time for
       me...when you have five million
       siblings, it's difficult to get
       attention.
              (pause)
       I feel physically inadequate -- I've
       never been able to lift more than ten
       times my own weight.  Sometimes I
       think I'm just not cut out to be a
       worker.  But I don't have any other
       options.  I was assigned to trade
       school when I was just a grub.  The
       whole system just...makes me
       feel...insignificant.

                 MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR
              (enthusiastic)
       Terrific!  You should feel
       insignificant!

For the first time, we see the ant MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR.
He's a mixture of Tony Robbins and Ron Popiel (the
hyperactive late-night TV huckster, and founder of "Ronco").

                 Z
       ...I should?

                 MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR
              (hopping around
               enthusiastically)
       YES!!!  You know, people ask me,
       "Doctor, why are you always happy?"
       And I tell them it's mind over
       matter.  I don't mind that I don't
       matter!  Do you get it?  Do you get
       it?

Z gives a fake smile.

                 MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR
              (incredibly "up")
       Z, we're part of the fastest growing
       species in the whole world!

The counsellor rolls down a chart from the wall.  An arrow
shows ant population going up, up, up.

                 MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR
       Ask me why we're so successful.

                 Z
       Why are we so successful?

                 MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR
       I'm glad you asked me that question!

The motivational counsellor opens some blinds...and we see a
vista of the ant-filled chamber below.

                 MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR
       What do you see out there?

                 Z
       ...Ants...

                 MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR
       Right!  Ants!  Millions of creatures,
       each with his assigned task, all
       pulling together!

Down below, we see a group of ants carrying a boulder up an
incline.  One worker ants slips, and the boulder rolls down,
crushing his leg.  The other ants rush over -- it looks like
they're going to help their fallen comrade, but instead, they
climb right over him, and pick up the boulder, continuing
with their task.

                 MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR
       You see?  Being an ant is being able
       to say, "Hey -- I'm meaningless,
       you're meaningless."

                 Z
       But -- but I've always felt life was
       about finding meaning...and then
       sharing it with someone special,
       someone you love.

The motivational counsellor puts his arm on Z's shoulder...he
seems to understand...

                 MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR
       Z...you need help.
              (looking at a clock)
       Whoops!  We're gonna have to stop
       there.  Your minute is up!

The counsellor ushers Z out of his seat and towards the door.

                 MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR
       Now back to work!  We've made real
       progress!  Remember -- let's be
       best superorganism we can be!

INT. EARLY MEGA-TUNNEL - DAY

A gigantic tunnel, with the size and scale of the "Chunnel".
A banner strung overhead reads: "The Mega-Tunnel -- Tunneling
Our Way to a Bright Future!"  Along the walls hang 50's work-
incentive style posters with messages like, "You asked for
it, you got it -- more work!" and "TWO MEALS A WEEK IS
ENOUGH!!!"  Line after line of ants is working on the tunnel,
digging, passing clumps of dirt from ant to ant, everyone
synchronized.

CLOSE on a clump of DIRT being passed from hand to hand.
PULL OUT TO REVEAL

AZTECA, a feisty, cynical, female worker ant, who stands
there, waiting to pass the dirt on.  Z is daydreaming behind
her, with clumps of dirt starting to pile up in front of him.

                 AZTECA
       Hello?!  Earth to Z!  You better snap
       out of it, or there's gonna be a lot
       of pissed off ants!

Z looks back, and sees the ants behind staring at him angrily.

                 Z
              (snapping out of it)
       Sorry Azteca.  Here you go, fellas!
       Fresh dirt!  Alley oop!
              (looking at the dirt)
       Shouldn't we be wearing gloves?  I
       mean this dirt is very...dirty.
       Doesn't anyone think of hygiene?
              (Z's stomach growls)
       Boy am I hungry.  I'm so hungry I'm
       seeing double.  It looks like there's
       two million ants in here.  When's
       lunch?  Tomorrow, or the day after?

                 AZTECA
              (sweetly)
       Z, old pal...
              (shouts)
       SHUT UP!!!  It's bad enough there's
       a food shortage without you
       complaining about it every day.

                 Z
       The squeaky wheel gets the oil.

                 AZTECA
       No, Z.  The squeaky wheel gets thrown
       away, alright?  You're a good ant, Z,
       even though you are a pain in my rear-
       segment.  I don't wanna see
       anything happen to you.  So quit
       mouthing off, before you get in
       trouble.

A WHISTLE BLOWS.

                 Z
       Thank goodness.  Breaktime.

All the ants put down their tools.  A beat.  Then the WHISTLE
BLOWS AGAIN.  All the ants pick up their tools again.

                 AZTECA
              (resigned)
       Break's over.

                 Z
              (getting back to work)
       This colony needs another tunnel like
       a hole in the ground.  Why are we
       even digging this thing?

                 AZTECA
       Who cares, Z.  All I know is, we
       gotta dig.  We're not the ones in
       charge.

INT. TOWN CENTER - DAY

The huge, spacious main chamber of the colony.  Looming over
the scene is the royal palace, which seems to be
inaccessible, perched on top of a hill-like pedestal.

Around the base of the pedestal, a crew of workers loiters,
seemingly aimlessly...can these be the only unemployed ants
in the place?

                 GENERAL FORMICA
       STAIRS!

The workers look up and GROAN.  Then they start forming a
stairway with their own bodies, linking arms, stepping on
each other's shoulders.  It's extremely unpleasant work.  One
ant is a little tardy, and just manages to get in place
before...

GENERAL FORMICA, the Pattonesque military leader of the
colony, STEPS ON HIS HEAD, using it as the first step as he
ascends to the palace, his aide-de-camp Carpenter in tow.  As
Formica mounts the "stairs"  we can hear the workers going,
"OUCH!  OOF!  YIKES!" etc.

                 GENERAL FORMICA
       Cut the chit-chat down there!
              (turning to Carpenter)
       We've spoiled these workers,
       Carpenter.  They've never had it so
       good, and listen to them -- always
       grumbling and complaining...

Formica steps on the foot of one of the "stairway" ants, who
muffles a yelp.

                 CARPENTER
       ...Yes, sir.

                 GENERAL FORMICA
       What have they got to complain about?
       Three square meals a day...

                 CARPENTER
       Actually, sir, we've cut them down to
       three roughly rectangular meals a
       week.

                 FORMICA
       Don't give me statistics, Carpenter.
       I know what I'm talking about.  DOORS!

Formica and Carpenter have reached the top of the staircase.
There, the two guard ants on either side of the massive
throne room doors pull them open -- and one door hinge
SQUEAKS.

                 FORMICA
              (to guard ant, while
               passing)
       Oil that, soldier.

INT. THRONE ROOM - DAY

The QUEEN is on her throne, her huge abdomen sprawled behind
her.

                 QUEEN
       Ah!  General Formica.

Formica salutes and marches to her, Carpenter behind him.

Note:  Throughout this scene, the Queen is giving birth
repeatedly.  Each birth is accompanied by a herald playing a
short "Happy Birthday" fanfare on his trumpet.  Mid-wife ants
bring each baby to the Queen for inspection, who COOS a few
words.  The midwives put the babies on a moving bassinet-
line, powered by ants on a treadmill.

                 QUEEN
       General, the severe food shortage
       that faces the colony...pains me.
       The thought of any of my children
       going hungry...
              (she shudders; then,
               to baby)
       Who's the cutest widdle worker?  You
       are!  Yes, you!  Don't forget to
       brush your teeth!
              (to mid-wife)
       Ship 'er out.
              (back to Formica)
       What steps are you taking to remedy
       the situation?

                 FORMICA
       We are launching a major offensive to
       expand our foraging territory...

                 QUEEN
       Yes, what else?

                 FORMICA
       Please don't worry, your majesty.
       Leave the worrying to me.  As you
       know, I'm not an ant of half-
       measures.  I don't pussyfoot around.
       This crisis is my number one
       priority, and I promise you it's
       being dealt with swiftly, and
       decisively.

The Queen's attention is interrupted by another baby being
put in her arms.

                 QUEEN
              (to baby)
       No snacking between meals!  Off you
       go!
              (to Formica)
       Now -- what were we saying?

                 FORMICA
              (Oliver North-style)
       I do not recollect, your majesty.
       Will that be all?

                 QUEEN
       Yes, General Formica.  Carry on, my
       good man!  I don't know what we would
       do without you.

Formica clicks his heels and bows his head.  Carpenter bows
low.  Formica smartly about faces --

                 BALA (O.S.)
       General Formica!

PRINCESS BALA hurries through a second doorway, carrying a
swatch book.  Something about her sets her apart from the
HANDMAIDEN ANTS with her.  Her tiara, probably.

Formica tilts his head quizzically to Carpenter behind him.

                 CARPENTER
              (sotto)
       Princess Bala, sir.  Your fiancee.

                 FORMICA
       Princess!  You look -- outstanding.
       Is there anything I can do for you?

                 BALA
       Well -- I thought -- since we're
       getting married...it might be nice if
       we...got to know one another.

Formica looks confused.

                 QUEEN
       Bala has always been a hopeless
       romantic, General.

                 BALA
       It's just that -- well, I'm honored
       that you selected me, and everything,
       I just thought the marriage might go
       a little more smoothly if -- we had
       a conversation?

                 FORMICA
              (uncomfortable)
       Conversation...yes...well...
              (to Carpenter)
       Wasn't she briefed?

                 QUEEN
              (holding up a baby)
       Look, General!  A darling baby
       soldier!
              (emotionally, to baby)
       Don't try to be a hero!  Just make
       sure you come back in one piece!
              (handing it off)
       Next!

                 FORMICA
              (using the
               interruption)
       I'll take your suggestion under
       advisement, Princess.  In the
       meanwhile --

Formica turns to go.

                 BALA
       General -- we have to talk sometime!

                 FORMICA
       Very well.  Carpenter, is there a
       convenient time to talk vis-a-vis:
       relationship?

                 CARPENTER
       Actually, sir, we're ahead of
       schedule.  We have thirty-six seconds
       available right now.

                 FORMICA
       Outstanding.  Princess...?

Bala's a little fazed...but grabs her chance.

                 BALA
       So, um...how was your day?  What did
       you do?

                 FORMICA
              (scouring his mind)
       Well...
              (that's it!)
       I declared war!

                 BALA
              (sadly)
       Oh...and I was afraid we had nothing
       in common...

                 CARPENTER
              (under his breath)
       Fourteen-fifty hours, sir.

                 FORMICA
       Duty calls!

He strides across the floor.  Bala watches him go, her
antennae drooping unhappily.

                 FORMICA
       No squeak.  Outstanding!

We see through the now-open doors into the throne-room as
Formica and Carpenter double-time out of the frame.

The Queen sees that Bala is unhappy.

                 QUEEN
              (sympathetically)
       I felt the same way before I got
       married.  Confused.  Scared.

                 BALA
              (hopefully)
       You did?

                 QUEEN
       Yes -- but I did my duty and sorted
       out all those messy feelings.  The
       wonderful thing about ant life is
       that everything is arranged.  Even
       marriage.  You're lucky -- General
       Formica is a paragon of anthood.

                 BALA
              (unconvinced)
       Yes...he's wonderful...

The doors swing shut on them -- revealing the two guard ants
who were CRUSHED in the wake of Formica's exit.

INT. BALA'S QUARTERS - DAY

Bala enters, followed by her handmaidens, who are in a state
of giggling infatuation over Formica.  Bala is scowling as
she leafs through a wedding catalogue.

                 HANDMAIDEN #1
              (swooning over
               General Formica)
       The General's body segments are
       so...symmetrical.

                 HANDMAIDEN #2
              (giggling)
       I'd let him order me into battle
       anyday.

Bala hurls the swatch book against the wall.

                 HANDMAIDEN #1
       Princess?  What's wrong?

                 BALA
       Wrong?  How could anything be wrong?
       I'm going to marry General Formica
       and be a queen and have millions of
       babies, just like my mom.
              (concerned)
       Do I look fat to you?

                 HANDMAIDEN #2
              (knowingly, to
               Handmaiden #2)
       Pre-wedding jitters.

                 HANDMAIDEN #1
       You just need to blow off some steam.
       Let's go to the bar at the Royal Club!

                 BALA
       The Club's so stuffy.  I want to try
       someplace different.

                 HANDMAIDEN #2
       There isn't anyplace else --
              (making a joke)
       Except the worker bar.

                 BALA
       The worker bar!  Yes!  That's where
       I want to go!

The handmaidens look shocked.

                 HANDMAIDEN #1
       But -- we can't -- there'll be
       workers there.

INT. ANT BAR - NIGHT

A long bar filled with ants.  The bar itself seems to stretch
for miles, and there are hundreds of ants trying to get a
drink...unfortunately, there's only one bartender.  Z is at
the bar with WEAVER, a burly ant soldier.

                 Z
       We declared war again?
              (off Weaver's nod)
       Are you scared?

                 WEAVER
              (shrugs)
       I'll be back.

The BARTENDER, a grizzled veteran, slaps down what looks like
a couple of large green beer mugs.  Actually, they're aphids,
little green critters he fills up from a number of kegs
hanging from the ceiling.  The kegs are specialized ants with
hugely distended stomachs, which spray liquid into the aphids.

                 APHIDS
              (as they're slapped
               on bar)
       Ouch!  Ouch!

                 BARTENDER
       Two aphid beers.

                 Z
              (as Bartender leaves)
       Did you see that?  How he gave you
       the beers, not me?  I'm telling you,
       he's got something against workers.

                 WEAVER
       I don't know what you're talking
       about, Z.

                 Z
       Come on -- everybody dumps on us
       workers.  You soldiers get all the
       glory.  Plus you get to go out into
       the world, meet interesting insects,
       and kill them.

                 WEAVER
       Yeah, but you get to spend all day
       with those fabulous worker babes.

We can see that Weaver is eyeing a nearby table of "Worker
Babes", including Z's friend Azteca.

                 Z
       Weaver, they're career girls.
       They're obsessed with digging.
              (sighs)
       No, I'll probably never meet the girl
       for me.

                 WEAVER
       Who said there was a girl for you?
       I was talking about a girl for me.
              (quaffing his aphid
               beer)
       Don't you want your aphid beer?

                 Z
       I can't help it.  I have a thing
       about drinking from the anus of
       another creature.  Call me crazy.

                 WEAVER
       Z, we've known each other a long
       time, right?

                 Z
       Of course.  You were born two seconds
       after me.

                 WEAVER
       And all the time I've known you,
       you've been grumping and groaning.
       You should quit making waves.  Go
       with the flow.

                 Z
       Weaver, I'm an insect, not a liquid.

Down the bar, there's a commotion.  A grizzled old SCOUT ant
has had too much to drink.

                 DRUNK SCOUT
       Have you been to Insectopia?  Have
       you?  No, ya goddam larvas!  But I
       have...
              (becoming emotional)
       ...Mosquitos n' caterpillars n'
       beetles -- all livin' in peace,
       stuffin their guts with food...No
       rules, no regulations...you can be
       your own ant there...
              (howling drunkenly)
       It's Insectopia!  Insectopia!

                 Z
       Hey, Weaver, listen!

                 DRUNK SCOUT
       I was cut off from my unit -- found
       it by mistake --
              (slurring)
       It changed my life!
              (spraying another
               soldier with saliva)
       You see -- ya follow the great yellow
       egg, and you come to the land of red
       and white --

                 SOLDIERS
       You've had enough for one night!
       Come on, Gramps, before you get in
       trouble.

The soldiers pull him from the bar, carrying him out.

                 Z
              (excited)
       Hey, did you hear what he said?!

                 WEAVER
       Poor guy's had one too many scouting
       missions.

MUSIC STARTS UP.

INT. ANT BAR ENTRANCE - NIGHT

Princess Bala is peering in at the entrance to the ant bar,
accompanied by her worried-looking handmaidens.

                 HANDMAIDEN #2
       We shouldn't be doing this -- it
       isn't proper!

                 BALA
       I'm the Princess, aren't I?

                 HANDMAIDEN #2
       Of course --

                 BALA
       And do Princesses do improper things?

                 HANDMAIDEN #2
       Of course not --

                 BALA
       Then if I go to the worker bar, it
       isn't improper.  Anyway, don't worry.
       No one will recognize us in our
       disguises.

She adjusts her "disguise", a hardhat, tied down Jackie O.-
style with an ant's version of a Chanel scarf.

                 BALA
       I'm just a common worker, cooling off
       after a rough day!

Music starts.  An ant BARKER takes the mic at one end of the
dance floor.

                 BARKER
              (on loudspeaker)
       Okay, folks.  It's six-fifteen, and
       that means it's time to dance.

Every ant gets up to dance.  Weaver turns to Z.

                 WEAVER
              (draining his beer)
       Time to cut a rug, Z!

                 Z
       I'm not in the mood.
              (disgusted)
       Even when they're off work, they
       follow orders.

                 WEAVER
       Well, you just sit here and be a
       party-pooper.

Weaver joins the rest of the ants who are lining up for the
dance.  The Barker calls out the steps in a bored monotone --
all the ants already know the steps.  Everyone dances in
perfect synch.

                 BARKER
              (southern twang)
       And a left-right-quarterstep-back
       step-halfstep -- a left-right-
       quarterstep-backstep-halfstep --
       a left-right-quarterstep-backstep
       halfstep --

AT THE ENTRANCE, Bala smiles mischievously at her handmaidens.

                 BALA
       I'm going to ask one of these
       mindless, primitive worker-types to
       dance with me!

                 HANDMAIDEN #1
       But General Formica would be furious!

                 BALA
              (enjoying the idea)
       I know.

The handmaidens are appalled.  Bala whirls away from them,
sets her sights and searches the crowd -- zeroing in on --

Z, who's watching the other ants dance.

                 Z
       What a bunch of losers.  Mindless
       zombies capitulating to an oppressive
       system --

                 BALA
       Wanna dance?

Bala's standing right there.  Z is instantly smitten.

                 Z
       Me?!  Yes!!!  I mean --
              (regaining suavosity)
       Just let me finish my beer.

Not breaking eye contact with Bala, Z smiles suavely.
Reaches suavely for a beer.  Suavely grabs the candle in a
glass jar off the bar.  Suavely singes his face.

He plays it off with a rakish little laugh.  A bit
apprehensive, Bala heads onto the floor.  Z follows her.

                 Z
       So uh -- how come I haven't seen you
       around here before?

                 BALA
              (covering up)
       I work in the palace, I don't get out
       much.

                 Z
       The palace, hunh?  I bet those royals
       really live it up.  Of course they're
       all a little, you know, from
       inbreeding --

                 BALA
              (shocked)
       What?

Z and Bala step onto the dance floor with the rest of the
ants, but Z can't do any of the steps.

                 Z
       Now, let's see, I -- it's been a
       while since I -- I think you --

Bala watches Z, trying to follow along.  It's the blind
leading the blind, as Z tries in vain to follow the barker's
rapid instructions.

                 Z
       Here, I'll lead.

Z starts doing his own, individual dance.  With a suave
expression on his face, he leads Bala in a helter-skelter
mixture-of Tango, Charleston, and hand-jive.

                 BALA
       Are you sure this is a real dance?

                 Z
       Well, actually, uh -- I'm sort of
       making it up --

                 BALA
              (surprised)
       Really?

                 Z
       Why should everyone dance the same
       way?  It's as exciting as watching
       fungus grow.

                 BALA
       You're right!

                 Z
              (surprised)
       You -- you think I'm right?

                 BALA
       Why can't I just do whatever I want
       to do?  Why can't I just go wild?!
       Yahoo!

Bala starts to get into it, making up her own steps in reply
to Z's, loosening up, having fun.  For a moment, the two of
them are actually sexy together.  Then they get a little too
wild -- and the other ants, who are still doing their
intricate dance, start to collide with Bala and Z.  Z almost
knocks over a big soldier ant.  We can only see the ant's
back at the moment.

                 SOLDIER
       Hey!  Watch your step, worker.

Z has turned around to see the soldier ant, MAJOR MANDIBLE,
glaring at him.  Mandible is about twice Z's size.  He's got
one eye missing, and half of his left antenna his been chewed
off.

                 BALA
       You watch yours, soldier, or my
       worker friend will beat you up!

                 Z
              (terrified)
       Oh, that's okay, I'll let him off
       this time.
              (whispering to Bala)
       Are you crazy?  This guy's built like
       a pebble!
              (ineptly trying to
               placate the soldier)
       You know they do great prosthetic
       antennas nowadays --

                 BALA
       Aren't you gonna stand up for
       yourself?


Z, meanwhile, looks far away, ecstatic, as if he's just
realized something very important.  Unfortunately, just at
this moment, A soldier pushes Weaver...Weaver pushes him
back...somebody makes a dive for Z -- and before you know it,
there's a regular bar brawl going on, with Weaver in the
middle of it, cracking heads together, punching ants in the
face, having a great time.  Just then, the Princess'
handmaidens hurries over.

                 HANDMAIDEN #1
       Princess Bala!  Princess Bala!

Z, who's scrabbling around on the floor, overhears.

                 Z
       Princess?  You're a Princess?

                 HANDMAIDEN #2
       The police are coming!

                 BALA
       Uh oh.
              (to Z)
       Goodbye!  Gotta run!

                 Z
       Wait!  When can I see you again?

                 BALA
       Let me think.  Hmmnn...
              (thinks)
       Never.  Bye!

Bala rushes off with her handmaiden, just before a squad of
whistle-blowing POLICE wade into the crowd.

                 Z
       Wait!  Princess!  Wait!

But she's already gone, leaving Z holding her scarf.

                                      CUT TO:

INT. DORMITORY - THE NEXT DAY

Z is talking to Weaver, who's getting ready to go off to war.
Nearby, columns of ant soldiers march by.

                 WEAVER
       Get real, Z!  She just dropped the
       scarf by accident!

                 Z
       Are you kidding?  There were sparks
       between us!  This scarf is a sign!

                 WEAVER
       It's a sign that you're crazy!  Do
       you know what the penalty for
       impersonating a soldier is?

                 Z
       What's gonna go wrong?!  I take your
       place for the royal inspection.  Bala
       comes strolling down the line, she
       sees me -- bingo!  Love is rekindled,
       and she takes me up to the palace for
       a little...
              (wags his eyebrows
               suggestively)
       tea and crumpets... and you take your
       place again, and go march around to
       your heart's content!

Weaver looks unconvinced.

                 Z
       You have to help me.  Please, Weaver.
       Think of all the things I've done for
       you!

                 WEAVER
              (thinks)
       I can't think of any.

                 Z
              (pause)
       Well I'm gonna start doing things for
       you...

                 WEAVER
       Will you introduce me to some worker
       girls?

                 Z
       You bet!  They'll really go for a
       sensitive guy like you!

                 WEAVER
       Maybe I'll get lucky.
              (Weaver thinks about
               it)
       You know, Z, I wouldn't do this
       for anyone but you...

Weaver hands Z has helmet.

                 WEAVER
       Wear this.

                 Z
              (overjoyed)
       You're a real buddy.

                 WEAVER
              (sourly)
       Yeah, I know.

                 Z
       What do I do?

                 WEAVER
       Don't tell anyone you're a worker.
       Follow that column over there.  And
       come right back after the inspection!

Weaver points to a bunch of soldiers hurrying by in formation.

                 Z
              (overjoyed)
       Thanks!  I owe you!

Z skips off and joins the column, marching in time with the
soldiers but too excited to keep from jazzing it up a little.

INT. TOWN CENTER - NIGHT

The ant army has gathered in a huge HALL in front of a
reviewing stand.  We can hear the murmuring of thousands of
soldiers -- but all we can see is a HUGE POSTER of an ant
General pointing right at the camera.  The poster reads,
"GENERAL FORMICA WANTS YOU -- to obey".

Z turns to some of the soldiers near him.

                 Z
       Any of you guys know when the
       Princess will show up?  She's kind of
       a personal friend.

The soldiers look at Z like he's nuts.

                 LOUD VOICE
       ATTEN-SHUN!

MARTIAL MUSIC sounds, and we hear thousands of ant feet as
they snap to attention.  Z imitates the soldiers awkwardly.

GENERAL FORMICA struts to the middle 6f the screen, slapping
his thigh with a swagger stick (the antenna of some
unfortunate insect)

                 FORMICA
       First of all, let me make one thing
       clear.  Nobody ever won a battle by
       thinking for himself.  All this
       "thinking" stuff is a load of crap.
       If the almighty had wanted you boys
       to think, he wouldn't have given you
       huge mandibles and a brain so small
       you'd misplace it if it wasn't
       trapped inside your head.

In the audience, Z starts laughing -- he thinks Formica's
just made a joke.

                 Z
              (slapping his thigh)
       "Trapped inside your head" -- that's
       a good one --

Z notices nobody else is laughing.  He stops.

                 Z
       Geez -- tough room.

From the stage, Formica is squinting at the audience, trying
to make out who was laughing, but there are just too many
ants.  He continues.

                 FORMICA
              (striding back and
               forth)
       We ants survive as a species because
       we do what we're told.  We survive
       because we work together, as one, we
       get the job done, we do whatever it
       takes to persevere!
              (dramatic pause)
       Hell, we're not an army of
       ants...we're one giant ant, with
       giant fists, and giant jaws!

The soldiers CHEER!  Z CHEERS along with the rest of them.

                 Z
              (to the soldier ant
               next to him)
       Lays it on a little thick, doesn't
       he?  If you ask me, he's one giant
       bore.

                 FORMICA
       Now I've heard a lot of scuttlebutt
       about a food shortage.  Well you boys
       are gonna be taken care of.  But in
       the meantime we're gonna eat the
       enemy for breakfast, we are gonna
       eat the enemy for lunch, and we are
       gonna eat the enemy for dinner!

                 Z
       Geez, and I forgot my toothbrush.

                 FORMICA
              (reflective moment)
       Dammit, I'm proud to be an ant.
              (he looks out at his
               army)
       And I know each and every one of you
       boys will do your duty.  Dismissed.

Z applauds and whistles as the other ants look at him in
confusion.

                 Z
              (clapping)
       Bravo!  Bring on the Princess!

                 COLONEL
       Stow the gab there, soldier!  Let's
       move 'em out!

The soldiers turn to the right and start to march out past
the reviewing stand.

A COLONEL marches at the head of Z's column as Z looks around
for the Princess.

                 COLONEL
       Eyes...left!

Finally, as Z's part of the army marches past the end of the
reviewing stand, he sees her, looking bored, standing next
to the Queen, who is giving the royal wave.

                 Z
              (waving)
       Princess!  Princess Bala!  Hey!  It's
       me!  Z!  I've got your scarf!

ON THE REVIEWING STAND, Bala sees Z -- that is to say, she
sees one of the thousands upon thousands of ants marching
by...

                 BALA
              (peering out)
       Who is that idiot?

                 QUEEN
       Darling, you must encourage the
       troops -- wave!

Bala waves unenthusiastically, little more than flopping her
hand back and forth on her wrist.

Down below, Z takes this as a sign that Bala has seen him.

                 Z
              (excited)
       Excuse me, guys -- That's my date.
       Well, it's been fun.  Have a great
       war!

Z tries to squeeze his way back towards the royals, but he's
surrounded by a solid wall of soldiers -- and they're
carrying him along with them.

                 Z
       Hey!  Wait!

Z loses sight of the Princess as he's carried away.
BARBATUS, a hard-as-nails "grunt" soldier ant, taps Z on the
shoulder.

                 BARBATUS
       You new, kid?

                 Z
       I just joined up.  But I'm quitting!
       I got a trial membership!

                 BARBATUS
       Trial membership?  Kid, when you join
       this ant's army, you're in for the
       full hitch.

At that moment, Z is swept out of the cramped corridor
they've been marching along, as the army emerges into the
OPEN AIR outside of the colony.

EXT. ANT MOUND - NIGHT

It's a starry, moonlit night.  The shadows crowd around the
panicked Z, who looks up at the sky as we see the army on the
march...

                 Z
       Wait a minute, there's been a
       mistake!  I've got to get back to the
       colony!

Z starts to fall out of line, but Barbatus, looking
concerned, stops him.

                 BARBATUS
       Are you crazy, kid?  They shoot
       deserters!

Z swallows hard.

                 BARBATUS
       You just stick by old Barbatus.
       He'll watch out for you.
              (off Z's look)
       Whatsamatter, kid?  Leave a girl
       behind?

                 Z
       Yeah.  Well -- no.  She's kind of
       playing hard to get.  As a matter of
       fact, she's playing completely
       unattainable.
              (nervously)
       So, what's on the schedule?  A brisk
       walk?  a foraging expedition?

                 BARBATUS
       No -- we're going to attack the
       termites!

                 Z
              (alarmed)
       Attack?  But -- I hate attacking!
       It's so hostile!

Around Z and Barbatus, the ants start up a marching song,
which we intersperse with dialogue between Barbatus and Z to
form a montage/time-cut as the ant army marches on to the
termite capital.

                 ANT SOLDIERS
              (to the tune of "When
               Johnny Comes
               Marching Home")
       We ants go marching one by
       one, hurrah, hurrah!  We slaughter
       termites just for fun, Hurrah!
       Hurrah!

                 Z
       So -- these termites, they're little,
       shy, retiring insects?

                 BARBATUS
              (grim smile)
       No such luck.  Those dirty terms are
       five times bigger than us, and they
       shoot acid from their foreheads!

                 SOLDIER ANTS
       We ants go marching two by two,
       hurrah!  Hurrah!  We'll all be dead
       before we're through, hurrah!  Hurrah!

Montage shots of an ant column marching diagonally across the
screen, fading into another column marching diagonally
downwards across the screen...

                 Z
       Well, what exactly does our platoon
       do?  Serve beverages?  Process
       paperwork?

                 BARBATUS
       Our platoon has the best assignment
       of all.  We're the first into battle!

                 ANT SOLDIERS
       We ants are marching three by three,
       hurrah!  Hurrah!  Dead ants is what
       we soon will be, hurrah!  Hurrah!

...montage shot of Z's column crossing a bridge composed of
living ants -- all of whom look extremely uncomfortable as
they're getting stepped on...

                 Z
       So we're going back for more armor,
       right?  I mean, these guys are from
       outer space, how are we supposed to
       beat them?!

                 BARBATUS
       Superior numbers, kid!

EXT. TERRAIN NEAR TERMITE STUMP - NIGHT

Z looks up to see...looming high above them...the TERMITE
CITY, which is built in the stump of a dead tree.  From here
it looks like a demonic Mount Fuji.  The COLONEL ANT shouts
an order.

                 COLONEL
       ATTAAAAAAAAACK!!!

The front line of ants starts rushing towards the termite
colony...Z is swept along...

                 BARBATUS
       Over the TOOOOOOOOOOOOO-OP!!!

Z is swept along and up the side of the stump as thousands of
ants invade the colony through every possible entrance.
Up...over the lip of the stump...and down inside, to the very
middle of the termite colony...

Into a disquietingly peaceful scene.   They're in the middle
of the hollowed-out trunk, and ants keep pouring in -- but
there's not a termite to be seen.  Barbatus looks around
suspiciously.

                 BARBATUS
       It's too damn quiet.

Then we hear a strange tapping noise.  Barbatus looks over,
and sees that Z's teeth are chattering with fear.

                 BARBATUS
       Don't be scared, kid.  Barbatus's
       got yer back.

                 Z
              (petrified)
       Maybe they went out for the evening.
       Let's leave them a message and head
       home.

                 COLONEL
              (ignoring him)
       Light it up!

A nearby soldier ant take a firefly out of his knapsack and
pinches him.  The firefly, yelling "Yipe!  Yipe!  Yipe!",
shoots into the air like a flare, lighting up the interior of
the stump with eery, shifting luminescence.

Then we notice, hollowed into the inside of the stump like
innumerable pockmarks, termite holes staring out upon the
stump...and, with an unearthly ROAR, we see the first of
hundreds of termites emerging to pour into the center of the
tree, right onto the ant army.

                 COLONEL
       They're here!!!

                 BARBATUS
              (to Z)
       Keep your head down!

Within moments, Z finds himself in the middle of a
BLOODBATH.  The ants have broken into the colony, but are
taking heavy losses from the gigantic, blind, acid-spewing
termites.  The battle scene is as sprawling and chaotic as
something out of Braveheart. In a few QUICK SHOTS from Z's
perspective, we see:

-- A squad of ants rushes towards a termite soldier, but are
literally melted into smoking heaps of flesh by a jet of acid
from its forehead...

-- A termite warrior is overwhelmed by a crowd of ants and is
pulled to pieces with hideous ripping sounds...

-- Another termite warrior takes on an ant soldier one on one
and slowly crushes his head in his huge jaws...

                 Z
              (looking around)
       Guys!  Guys!  It isn't too late for
       all of us to just talk this over!

Just then, a termite burst up from the ground and turns to
face Z.  Z is dwarfed by this hulking, roaring, drooling
monstrosity.

                 Z
       Wait!  Please!  Acid makes me come
       out in spots!  -- Could I just say I
       have always had the greatest respect
       for your species?  I mean, eating
       wood -- why didn't I think of that?
       I --

The termite rears, getting ready to melt Z, when OOF! he's
knocked backwards by...

                 Z
       BARBATUS!  You -- you saved my life!

                 BARBATUS
       Don't get all sappy about it!

As Barbatus and some other soldiers kill the termite, the
Colonel strides up to Z, puffing on a cigar.

                 COLONEL
       I love the smell of formic acid in
       the morning.

                 Z
       Look out!

A stream of termite acid engulfs the colonel, instantly
burning him to a cinder clutching a still-burning cigar; Z's
paratroop buddies turn in terror to see a herd of termites
rumbling towards them.  Z, terrified, dives into the hole
that the huge termite made...

INT. TERMITE TUNNEL - NIGHT

...and tumbles headlong into a corridor of the termite mound.
The corridors here are primitive, caveman-like, pocked with
jagged access holes.

No sooner has Z landed in the tunnel than a termite comes
burrowing out from one of the side walls, snapping at Z's
head.  Z just avoids getting decapitated, and digs straight
through the wall in order to escape...

INT. TERMITE QUEEN'S CHAMBER - NIGHT

...straight into the hub of the entire termite complex -- the
Queen's chamber.  This is nothing like the civilized court of
the ant colony -- it's a huge, stinking, fetid dungeon whose
walls are held up by one massive (to Z) column of piled
stones.

The termite queen, a repulsive, slimy, squirming, foot-long
monster, is attended by a crew of diminutive, blind termite
nurses.  The queen turns to look Z right in the eye.

                 Z
       Excuse me.  I seem to be lost, and I
       was wondering if you could give me --

Before Z can say, "directions", the queen gives out a
piercing, blood-curdling shriek.  The nurses start shrieking
too.

                 Z
              (backing away)
       I'll let myself out.

But the queen's shriek has summoned a soldier termite -- the
biggest one we've seen yet -- who is charging headlong at Z,
jaws snapping open and shut like huge scissors.

                 Z
              (backing away)
       Shoo! -- Torro!  Torro!

At the last moment, Z jumps out of the way -- and the termite
runs headfirst into the supporting column of the chamber.  As
if on a spring release, the termite's jaws clamp shut -- and
shatter the base of the column.  The walls of the room begin
to rumble...

The termite turns to eat Z...but is crushed by a stone
falling from the ceiling, which gives a final shudder and
collapses, raining earth and stones down on the queen.

As the walls of the chamber crumble, melees of ants and
termites pour into the room from the corridors around and
above...they keep struggling until...

                 ANT OFFICER
              (points at Z)
       He's killed their Queen!

                 Z
       Hey, I'm sorry, it was a mistake --

                 ANT OFFICER
       VICTORY!!!

We can see that the termite warriors, deprived of their
leader, are suddenly confused and directionless, easy prey
for the ants.

                 Z
              (facetious)
       This is terrific!   Let's exact
       crippling war reparations!  Let's set
       up a puppet government!

                 ANT OFFICER
       Let's slaughter them all!

The ants set about killing the disoriented termites when...we
hear another rumble coming from the outside...the ants look
up confusedly...

...And a (from the ant's point of view) five-hundred foot
long tongue bursts through the top of the chamber with a
CRASH.  The ten or so ants standing directly below are
smashed by the tongue, which squirts out a spray of saliva
around the crater.  As quick as it appeared, the tongue
retracts, with a hideous SLUUURPING sound.  We can now see
the end of the snout of an ant-eater poking through a hole in
the ceiling high above...

                 ANT OFFICER
       INCOMING!

The tongue comes down again, smashing some more ants, whose
bodies are slurped up by the tongue...the ants scatter, but
to no avail, as the tongue comes smashing down again and
again...

Z heads into a side corridor as the tongue smashes down
again, barely missing him!

Z retreats along the corridor as the tongue searches for him,
across the tunnel from intersecting access-tunnels, getting
closer and closer to Z, dragging more and more screaming ants
and struggling termites...

....Then the tongue disappears.  Silence.  Z wipes his brow...

And we hear a thunderous SNIFFING noise as the anteater
searches for more prey... and the tongue starts rumbling down
the corridor right towards Z, the tip squirming as it
ricochets along the walls!

Z gets up and runs, the tongue lapping towards him,
reminiscent of the stone sphere that nearly crushed Indiana
Jones in Raiders of the Lost Ark!  The walls disintegrate
under the pressure of the tongue, which gets closer to
Z...closer...

...and just misses him as Z tumbles out of the stump and down
to the ground...Z sits there, dazed, as we see the huge form
of the anteater withdraw its tongue and, with a final
contented burp, shuffle off into the distance.

EXT. TERMITE STUMP - MORNING

Z makes his way across the corpse-strewn battlefield, an
expression of horror on his face.

                 BARBATUS (O.S.)
       Z!  Over here!

                 Z
              (hopeful)
       Barbatus?

Z looks down at his feet, where Barbatus's still-living,
decapitated head is looking up at him.

                 Z
              (shocked)
       Barbatus!

                 BARBATUS
       Be honest, kid -- am I hurt bad?

                 Z
       No, no, you're...lookin' good.
       You've got good color in your cheeks.

                 BARBATUS
       No -- I can see it in your eyes.  I'm
       a goner.  It's alright, Z.  In this
       ant's army, a soldier's life ain't
       worth a sack of fungus.
              (he winces)
       I can't feel my legs...

                 Z
       Hang in there, buddy!  You can make
       it!  Just -- take deep breaths, I'll
       try and find your body -- it's gotta
       be around here somewhere!

                 BARBATUS
              (gasping)
       I wonder...what...was it all...for...

                 Z
       Barbatus, hang on -- Barbatus!!

                 BARBATUS
       Don't make my mistake, kid...
       don't...be a grunt...your whole
       life...

Barbatus dies, leaving Z heartbroken.

                                      CUT TO:

INT. EARLY MEGA-TUNNEL - DAY

Weaver is "passing" as a worker, working alongside much
smaller worker ants.  He actually loves the work.  He's
throwing up dirt like a bulldozer.  He's so enthusiastic, he
scoops up a WHOLE ANT in his shovel and tosses him aside.
Azteca, who's standing next to him in line, is shocked by,
and a little attracted to, this turbo-worker.

                 AZTECA
       Hey, slow it down, big boy.  You're
       making the rest of us look bad...How
       come I haven't seen you around here
       before?

                 WEAVER
              (covering)
       I'm new...I was born yesterday.

                 AZTECA
       Tell me about it.

                 WEAVER
       Nobody told me digging was so much
       fun!  You pick up the dirt, you move
       it, you pick it up again, you move it
       again -- lots of repetitions, you
       exercise the forceps, and the
       pincers --

                 AZTECA
              (ogling him)
       Mmm, yes, I see what you mean...

While Azteca is checking out the hunky new worker, work has
effectively stopped...clods are piling up behind Weaver.  A
Foreman comes striding down the line, furious.

                 FOREMAN
       What's the holdup here?!

Weaver whips his shovel up to his shoulder and salutes, as if
he's dealing with a superior officer.

                 WEAVER
       Sorry, sir -- I was just having a
       little chat with my friend --

                 FOREMAN
              (yelling at Weaver)
       Who said you could have a chat?
       You're not a chatter, you're a
       digger!  So shut up and dig!

                 AZTECA
       Leave him alone!  He's new.

                 FOREMAN
       You  too?  Well just for that, you
       lose your day's rations!  Now get
       back to work!

The Foreman heads down the line, shoving and berating the
other workers as he goes along.

                 AZTECA
              (surprised at herself)
       I don't know what came over me,
       talking back like that.  I must be
       going crazy...

                 WEAVER
       Sorry I got you in trouble.  But
       listen, you can share my rations.

                 AZTECA
              (flirting)
       Are you asking me out to dinner?

                 WEAVER
              (blushing)
       No -- I mean yes -- I mean -- if you
       don't have other plans.

                 AZTECA
       I'll make myself available...Listen,
       better watch out with the
       backtalk.  I don't know want you to
       end up like the guy who used to work
       next to me.  I'm afraid he got...
       downsized.

EXT. ANT MOUND - DAY

Some guard ants are looking out across the sandy main
entrance to the hive.

                 GUARD ANT
       Look!  They're back!  The army's
       back!  Alert the colony!

The other ant starts ringing a bell, rushing down into the
colony.

                                      CUT TO:

INT. TOWN CENTER - DAY

A huge crowd is forming, eager to welcome the army back.  A
band is striking up a triumphant victory song, confetti and
streamers are being thrown, as General Formica strides in,
followed by Carpenter.

                 EXCITED ANTS
       The army's returned!  Our brave boys
       are back! (etc.)

Everyone waves little flags as the tuba player Oompah-oompah-
oompahs...

...and Z walks into the hall, looking bedraggled and
exhausted, his helmet hanging over his ears.

The band slows to a halt.

At the edge of the crowd, Azteca, sitting on Weaver's
shoulders, can just about see over the crowd.

                 AZTECA
       It looks like only one soldier made
       it back!

Weaver looks distraught.

                 WEAVER
              (to himself)
       Poor Z -- I should never have let you
       go!

Far down the hall, Z is describing the battle.

                 Z
       It was horrible...a massacre, a
       massacre upon a massacre.  First we
       massacred them, then they massacred
       us, then it was halftime.  I've never
       seen such violence, such
       bloodthirstiness, such bad
       manners...I'm the only one that made
       it!

The atmosphere is somber.  This is a tough one to try and put
a spin on...but that doesn't stop Formica from trying.

                 FORMICA
       ONE TO NOTHING!  WE WIN!

The band strikes up again, and everyone cheers.

                 Z
       No -- you -- you don't understand!

                 FORMICA
       Damn, I'm proud of you, boy.  I wish
       I had a hundred ants of your caliber.
       The world would tremble.  Now, time
       for some R and R.  You're invited to
       the royal victory party!

                 Z
       Royal victory party?  Will...will
       Princess Bala be there?

                 FORMICA
       Of course.  The entire royal family
       will be there to honor you.

                 Z
              (thinks)
       ONE TO NOTHING!

Renewed CHEERS, as Z is lifted onto the shoulder of some of
the soldiers who stayed behind.

                 AZTECA
       Wait a minute, that's no soldier --
       that's Z!

                 WEAVER
       Z?  Our Z?  The little guy made it!

Z is following Formica away from the cheering crowd.

EXT. ABOVE TOWN CENTER - DAY

Z and Formica are going up the royal "stairway" together.

                 FORMICA
       Son, you're an ant after my own
       heart.  A warrior.  An ant that looks
       death right in the face and laughs.

                 Z
       Well, I generally just make
       belittling comments and snicker
       behind death's back.  So, tell me,
       fellow war-monger...do you think
       Princess Bala likes men in uniform?

                 FORMICA
       Well she better -- she's engaged to
       one.  Me!

                 Z
       Engaged?  As in you're getting
       married?

                 FORMICA
       Affirmative.

                 Z
       So...you two are in love?

                 FORMICA
       In love?
              (shakes his head)
       I'm just a plain old soldier at
       heart.  I'll tell you what I love --
       the field -- blood -- death --
       orders...and the company of other
       warriors.

Formica gives Z a manly slap on the back.  Z looks a little
uncomfortable as we...

                                      CUT TO:

INT. THRONE ROOM - DAY

Z follows Formica and Carpenter into the throne room.  At the
end of the hall, a society band is playing.  The room is full
of courtier ants and officers.

Waiters are gliding around holding trays of hors d'ouevres.

                 Z
       Wow, what a spread -- you know,
       there's a food shortage in the rest
       of the colony.

                 FORMICA
       Yes, and do you know why there's a
       food shortage?

                 Z
       ...Not enough food?

                 FORMICA
       Negatory.  Too many ants.  And while
       we soldiers go out there, and fight,
       and bleed, and die for the colony,
       the namby-pamby workers live it up
       back home.

Feeling a little hot, Z wipes his brow.

                 Z
       Well I, I don't think "living it up"
       is the right term -- how about
       "working themselves to death"?

                 FORMICA
       I tell you son, sometimes, at night,
       I see myself in battle, fighting a
       horrible, faceless enemy, with the
       future of our whole species at stake.
       And always, the dream ends with each
       of us plunging his sword into the
       other's heart...

                 Z
              (spooked)
       Oh, hey, that's great, I think I see
       an old war buddy over there, it's
       been fun chatting.  Good luck with
       the hallucinations.

Z escapes from Formica, who gazes after him suspiciously.

Z mingles in with the crowd, then he sees Princess Bala
standing with a group of officers who are eating hors
d'oeuvres.

                 OFFICER
              (telling a joke)
       What do you call it when 10,000
       workers are killed in a tunnel cave-
       in?
              (a beat)
       Who cares?  They're workers!

The officers laugh, but Bala looks bored in this stuffy
social scene.

                 Z
       But...don't you think the worker
       class is the very foundation of the
       colony --
              (realizes he's
               getting odd looks)
       I mean, uh, without them, who would
       we stand on?

More laughter.

                 BALA
       You're the hero of the recent termite
       campaign, aren't you?

                 Z
       Well, if single-handedly vanquishing
       the enemy and slaughtering a whole
       nestful of termites makes someone a
       hero, yes I am.

Z reaches for a tray of canapes that a waiter is carrying by,
and KNOCKS the whole thing CLATTERING to the ground.

                 Z
              (feigning nonchalance)
       And you are...?

                 BALA
       I'm Princess Bala.

                 Z
       Ah, yes.
              (affected)
       Well, charmed, I'm sure.  So,
       Princess, have you ever danced with
       a hero?

                 BALA
       Yes.

                 Z
              (deflated)
       Oh...oh well then, one more won't
       matter.

She moves towards the dance floor.  Z spit-combs his
antennae, struts after her -- until he trips on his sword.
He tumbles, falls, but hops to his feet just as Bala turns
toward him, turning it into a ballet plies.

                 Z
       Just warming up...

She frowns...there's something familiar about this guy.  But
then they start dancing.

ACROSS THE ROOM: The Queen and General Formica watch the
party.

                 QUEEN
       All these parties are so marvellously
       alike.

                 FORMICA
       They should be...
              (suspicious)
       But there's something funny about
       that soldier.

Formica strides over to where Z and Bala are dancing.

                 FORMICA
              (glowering)
       May I cut in?

                 Z
              (intimidated)
       Oh, of course --

                 BALA
              (pulling Z back)
       No, General.  I'm dancing with the
       war hero.

                 Z
              (trying to placate
               Formica)
       Uh, sorry, General, I...I've always
       had this animal magnetism, it --

Bala YANKS Z back onto the dance floor, dancing away from
Formica.

                 BALA
       You dance...

                 Z
       Divinely?

                 BALA
       No weirdly...You remind me of
       someone...

Formica catches Bala's eye.  She frowns at him, and decides
to get a little shocking.

                 BALA
       He was swarthy...primitive...
       earthy...sensual.

As she says these things, Z tries to act accordingly.

                 BALA
       He was a worker.  I danced with him
       at a worker's bar just the other day.
       I'm not shocking you, am I?

                 Z
              (proudly)
       No...as a matter of fact...

                 BALA
              (shocked)
       OH MY GOD, IT'S YOU!  YOU'RE A
       WORKER!!!  A filthy, stupid,
       disgusting WORKER!

Everybody gasps.  The dancing stops cold.

                 Z
       Gee, uh, could you say it a little
       louder, I think there are some ants
       in the next colony who didn't hear
       you.

                 BALA
       I CAN'T DANCE WITH A WORKER!

                 Z
              (offended)
       That's not what you said the other
       night --

                 BALA
              (now she's panicked)
       Quiet -- sshhh!!

                 Z
              (digging it in)
       -- At the worker bar!  You were
       pretty hot to trot then!

                 BALA
       SSHH!!!  SSHH!!!

A livid Formica is stalking over towards them.

                 FORMICA
              (furious)
       What's this?  A worker has been
       masquerading as a war hero?!

                 Z
       Well it wasn't a masquerade, really,
       it was more what I'd call a clever
       ruse --

                 FORMICA
       ARREST HIM!

                 Z
       Can't we all settle this like
       adults -- we're not larvae anymore --

Angry officers begin to surround Z, who hides behind Bala in
fear, using her as a shield.

                 QUEEN
       Oh my god!  He's taking her hostage!

                 Z
       No I'm not -- I mean -- nobody move!
       Or the Princess gets it!

People shout and scream, as Z backs up with the
Princess...into the kitchen.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Z backs up into the kitchen, still pulling Bala along with
him.  Here, ant chefs are preparing food for the party,
vomiting little florets onto a platter.  Formica and the
soldiers follow them in.

                 Z
              (to Formica)
       Stay back, you lunatic!  Do you think
       I don't know how to use this?

Z realizes that he's pointing his finger at them.

                 Z
       Uh-oh.

The officers rush for...and Z, with Bala in tow, falls
backwards into an opening marked, "GARBAGE".

EXT. ANT MOUND - DAY

HOLD ON: the GARBAGE CHUTE EXIT.  Nothing happens for a
moment.  Then --

From a distance, we hear the faint sound of SCREAMING,
dopplering closer --

-- and then Z and Bala come flying out of the exit, right
into the mud, cutting off the scream abruptly.

Bala sits up, coated in mud.  Z is nowhere to be seen.
Because she's on top of him.

                 PRINCESS
       This is thoroughly unacceptable!

                 Z
       You're telling me...

She gets up and runs back towards the colony entrance, where
soldiers are already issuing to get her...

                 BALA
       I'm coming!  I'm coming!

But...just as Bala'a about to be rescued...what looks like a
gigantic LASER BEAM sweeps along the rim of the colony,
sizzling the ground as it moves along...and IGNITES the lead
soldier into FLAMES!  Bala looks stunned.

Z watches in horror as another soldier ant is FRIED, and we
look up to see a GIGANTIC MAGNIFYING GLASS casting the
beam...we can just about make out the huge, grotesque figure
(a seven year old kid) holding it.

Bala, who has no idea what's really going on, turns from the
colony and runs the other way.

                 BALA
       I'm going!  I'm going'

...unfortunately, this draws the fire of the laser, which
follows after her in what looks like a strafing run, SIZZLING
in her footsteps.

Z, who's running towards the princess, suddenly realizes that
he's running towards certain doom...and joins Bala in legging
it away from the colony; under a brown leaf, which bursts
into flames...between the redwood-like stalks of some
flowers...and finally into the relative safety of some
grass...where they throw themselves on the ground, exhausted.

                                      CUT TO:

EXT. WEED CLUMP - DAY

Z and Bala dust themselves off.

                 BALA
       What was that thing?

                 Z
       How should I know?

                 BALA
       I order you to find out where we are!

                 Z
       Alright, alright, I'll try to get
       directions from one of the locals.

Z tries to flag down some passing bees.

                 Z
       Excuse me, I --
              (it passes him by;
               he tries the next)
       Pardon me --
              (same response)
       And they call them social insects.

                 BALA
       Climb up that tree and get a better
       view!

Bala points to a thin blade of grass.  Gingerly, Z tests the
grass and starts climbing up it...but his weight bends it, so
that he's lowered back to the ground, face to upside-down
face with Bala.

                 BALA
       I've been kidnapped by the village
       idiot.

                 Z
       Who's the bigger idiot -- the idiot
       who gets kidnapped, or the idiot who
       lets herself get kidnapped by the
       idiot?

                 BALA
       How dare you speak to me like that?
       I'm the Princess!

Z squares up with her.

                 Z
       Theoretically, yes.  But is the
       monarchical hierarchy applicable
       without the underlying social
       structure to support it?

                 BALA
       Of course!  It defines society!  To
       deny the precept is to say that order
       is an arbitrary distinction applied
       by the society itself!

                 Z
       But can there be a society composed
       of just two ants?

                 BALA
       No!  There's no such thing as "just
       two ants."  You never see just two
       ants -- you see a million ants!

                 Z
       Look around, sweetheart.

She looks around.  She doesn't like what she sees.  She
glowers at Z.

                 BALA
       I -- hate -- you.

                 Z
       Well I guess that makes us even.

                 BALA
       Ha!  Don't make me laugh.  You're
       crazy about me!  That's why you lied
       and cheated to get near me!

                 Z
       Oh come on, you're the one who came
       after me -- the swarthy, earthy,
       sensual worker!

                 BALA
              (repulsed)
       I was slumming it!  I danced with you
       because you were the most pathetic
       specimen in the place!

                 Z
       Is that the same standard you used to
       choose General Formica?

                 BALA
       I didn't choose him.  What kind  of
       idiot would...
              (unconvincingly)
       ...choose who she wanted to marry?

She shakes herself out of it.

                 BALA
       Now, worker, you shall take me back
       to the colony, and have your head cut
       off and stuck on a sharp pole!

                 Z
       Well, that's an appealing offer,
       but...considering the options...
              (he decides)
       You go back.  Me, I'm going to
       Insectopia.

                 BALA
       Insectopia?  You stupid worker,
       that's just a fairy tale!

                 Z
       Yeah, well I have it on a reliable
       source...
              (he knows that was
               maybe stretching it)
       that it exists.  Now you follow
       the yellow egg...
              (looking around)
       That direction.

                 BALA
       Worker!  Come back here now!

                 Z
       I've got a name.  It's Z.

                 BALA
       That's not a name!  That's just a
       letter!

Z, meanwhile, hits the road.  Bala has no idea of where to
go.  Just then, the scariness of the outside world comes
through to her.

We start hearing NOISES -- the equivalent of scary jungle
sounds in a Tarzan movie -- the HISSING, CROAKING,
CHIRRUPING... Bala sees eyes looking out at her from all
directions...and spots a colossal monster (a sparrow) fixing
her with his beady gaze.

                 BALA
              (clears her throat)
       Worker?
              (no response...louder
               now)
       Oh WORKER?  Where are you?
              (getting desperate)
       Z?  Z?  Wait for me!!!

Bala heads off after Z.

INT. MEGA-TUNNEL - DAY

The mass of worker ants are swinging pick-axes in the tunnel.
The foreman moves up the line, BERATING the workers, yelling
at them to dig faster.

                 AZTECA
       I tell ya, I'm gettin' sick of bein'
       yelled at.

                 WORKER #1
       What do you want, we're just workers.

                 WEAVER
       You know, you're not just workers --
       you can be whatever you want to be!
       Look at Z!  He started as a worker --
       then he became a soldier!

                 AZTECA
       That's right!  He slaughtered
       hundreds of termites single-handedly!

                 WORKER #2
       I heard about this guy.
              (turning to the other
               workers)
       He crashed a party at the palace.
       Then he took a hike with one of the
       royal babes!  And when they tried to
       stop him, he just looked at a
       couple'a guards, and they burst into
       flames!

                 WORKER ANT #1
       You're nuts, how could a worker do
       all that?

                 WEAVER
       Well, because he's more than a
       worker...he's a...what did he call
       it, Azteca...

                 AZTECA
       Invisible!

                 WEAVER
       No -- an individual!

                 WORKER #2
       What's that?

                 WEAVER
       Well, it's...someone with his own
       point of view...someone who does what
       he wants, not whatever he's told to
       do!

                 AZTECA
              (eyes lit up,
               watching Weaver)
       Someone who follows his heart!

                 WEAVER
              (taking Azteca's hand)
       Right...because every ant's important!

                 WORKER #2
              (scoffs)
       But that would mean I'm important.

                 WORKER #1
       I'm outta here, this sounds like
       trouble to me.

But more ants are gathering 'round.

                 WEAVER
       We can all be individuals!  Just like
       Z!

Weaver and Azteca hold hands.  More ants are gathering
around, dropping their tools...

EXT. BIKE PATH - DAY

LONG SHOT.  A glimmering desert landscape (think of "The
Sun's Anvil" in Lawrence of Arabia).  Two small figures can
be seen, tiny dots moving across the arid whiteness.

They're Bala and Z, who are crossing a concrete path in the
park, which they perceive to be a "desert".

                 BALA
       Water...water...

                 Z
       Water...water -- oh, you already said
       that.

                 BALA
              (walking along)
       My skin's dry, my exoskeleton is
       cracking...I wish I'd never met you,
       you ruined my life.

                 Z
       I ruined your life?  Look, I was
       perfectly happy until I met you --
       alright, I was miserable, but I was
       happily miserable.

Over Z's line, we can see a GIGANTIC WHEEL, getting larger
and larger and heading right towards them, a GIGANTIC WHEEL
(the front wheel of a bicycle which is heading right towards
them).

                 BALA
       Look out!

Bala pushes Z out of the way just as the wheel rolls past
with a cacophonous CRUNCHING, GRINDING noise -- like a
gigantic millwheel.

                 BALA
       We're going to die!

                 Z
       Come on -- it's gone!  What are the
       chances of that happening again?

No sooner has he said it than the rear wheel of the bike
thunders past.

                 Z
       Well I'll be.

Bala notices that they're clutching one another in fear; she
pushes him away.

                 BALA
       Why didn't I listen to my mother
       ...why'd I have to go looking for
       trouble? Any ant would have given
       their left legs to be in my
       position...what's wrong with me?

                 Z
       Want a list?

                 BALA
              (urgent)
       Wait, I hear something!

We can, in fact, hear a low, musical PLUNK.. there's a pause
and then we can hear it again...

Z and Bala walk over a rocky "dune" (the soft shoulder of the
path).  Beyond, the grass starts up again.  They have come to
the end of the "desert" (i.e. the other side of the path)
Through the blades of grass, we can see...

                 Z
       It's...it's...


                 BALA
       WATER!!!

EXT. LAKE - DAY

A LAKE (a puddle) stretches before them.  It is, in fact, the
overflow of a drinking-fountain whose drain is jammed...as Z
and Bala run to the lake, water dribbles from the fountain
and into one edge of the pool (to the ants, it's a waterfall).

Bala and Z run to the edge of the water and start slurping.
They smile at each other, until they remember that they don't
like each other.

                 Z
       This lake is huge!  And so close to
       the colony!  Think of the vacation
       potential!

                 BALA
       Cut me down a soft leaf so I can take
       a nap.

                 Z
       Listen, "Princess", you can't order
       me around.  Out here, you're not the
       boss anymore -- out here, you're
       just --

-- But before he can finish, a water droplet from the
fountain falls on him.  It may not sound like much, but to Z
it's as though a ten-foot diameter sphere of jello had
engulfed him.

Z's stuck inside because of the surface tension of the
droplet, which doesn't burst, just quivers up and down.
Inside, Z is slowly, frantically drowning and screaming for
help.  But his screams are muffled in the water.

                 BALA
              (annoyed)
       Out here I'm just what?

                 Z
              (through the water)
       Hlllllllp!

                 BALA
              (hands on hips)
       Stop fooling around in there.

By now the droplet has started rolling, and Z is being turned
upside-down.  He manages to get one foreleg out of the
droplet, and, in a frantic attempt to pull himself out, pulls
Bala in by the leg.

                 BALA
       Let me go!!!

But it's too late -- they're now both stuck in the droplet,
and, as Z continues to drown, he also has to deal with Bala
yelling at him -- though we can't hear exactly what it. is
she's yelling through the water.

Then, having run out of air, she too starts thrashing,
alternately trying to swim and trying to slap him as Z tries
to defend himself.  Finally all this commotion is enough to
make the droplet burst, spilling the two coughing,
sputtering, drenched ants onto the ground.

They both lie there, miserable, wet, and cold.

                 BALA
              (chants to herself)
       I'm going to be rescued soon.  I'm
       going to be rescued soon.  I'm going
       to be rescued soon.

Z watches her incredulously.

                 Z
       Princess, has it ever occurred to you
       that they're not going to rescue you?

                 BALA
       General Formica won't let me die out
       here.  I'm his fiancee.

                 Z
       Look.  How many other Princesses are
       there?

                 BALA
       Five thousand three hundred and
       ninety -- no.  About five thousand
       four hundred by now.

                 Z
       And only you can become a Queen?

                 BALA
       Well...no, but --

                 Z
       So what makes you so special?

                 BALA
              (hesitates)
       Well...I am the oldest.

Bala turns from Z.  She's thinking things over, realization
dawning on her.

                 BALA
       By three seconds...

She looks out into the grass forest.

                 BALA
              (to herself)
       You're right.  There are as many
       Princesses...as there are blades of
       grass.

Z, overhearing her, slowly puts his hand on her shoulder.

INT. MEGA-TUNNEL - DAY

Formica and Carpenter are walking into the entrance of the
tunnel with a squad of soldiers.

                 FORMICA
       Dammit, this tunnel is priority A-1!
       We can't afford any delays on this
       project!

                 CARPENTER
       I've never seen anything like it,
       General, they're they're...well, look!

Ahead of them, a group of a few hundred workers have stopped
work and are sitting down, chanting...

                 WORKER ANTS
       Z!  Z!  Z!  Z!

A worker moves forward to join the strikers, tossing down his
tool.

                 FOREMAN
              (yelling at him)
       Where do ya think you're going?  Get
       back to work!

                 WORKER #1
       Buzz off, I'm important!
              (joining the others)
       Z!  Z!  Z!  Z!


At the center of the group, Weaver and Azteca are holding
hands, leading the chant.

                 FORMICA
       Notice the big one, holding hands
       with the female?

                 CARPENTER
       Well, uh, who notices workers, sir?

                 FORMICA
              (calculating)
       No one should have to.  Have him
       brought to me.

INT. FORMICA'S CHAMBERS - NIGHT

A nervous Weaver is sitting across from Formica, flanked by
a couple of stoic guards.  Carpenter stands smiling by the
side door.  There is no obvious threat to Weaver, but the
atmosphere is truly intimidating.

                 FORMICA
       So this Z...he fancies himself an
       individual?

                 WEAVER
       Yeah...I mean...well...I don't know,
       really, sir.

                 FORMICA
              (patronizing)
       Well now you haven't fallen for this
       silly idea of individuality, have
       you?

                 WEAVER
       Oh, no, sir!

                 FORMICA
       Good.  You're a good soldier.

                 WEAVER
       Thank you, sir.

Weaver begins to relax a bit.

                 FORMICA
       So tell me.  Where's Z?

                 WEAVER
       I...I have no idea, sir.

                 FORMICA
       Okay, son.

He pats Weaver on the shoulder.

                 FORMICA
       We know what makes an ant colony
       strong, don't we?  We know that no
       ant can be an individual.  No single
       ant matters, right?

                 WEAVER
              (enthusiastically)
       That's correct, sir!

                 FORMICA
              (points at a guard)
       Not that one.
              (another guard)
       Or that one.

                 WEAVER
       No, sir!

Formica nods at Carpenter, who smiles and opens a door.  Two
soldiers walk in, holding Azteca.  The color drains from
Weaver's face.

                 FORMICA
              (calmly, with
               satisfaction)
       Or that one?  Her life doesn't
       matter, does it?

                 AZTECA
       Don't tell that tightass anything,
       Weaver!

Weaver starts to get up, but the guards behind him hold him
down.

                 WEAVER
       Wait!  Just let her go!  Z's long
       gone anyway, following some golden
       egg to Insectopia!  You'll never
       catch him!

Formica's face lights up.

                 FORMICA
       Insectopia, hunh?...See why
       individuality is so dangerous?  It
       can always be used against you.
              (to the guards)
       If this sissy here wants to dig,
       he'll dig.  Send them both back to
       the tunnel project.  Double their
       workload.

The guards exit with Weaver and Azteca.

                 FORMICA
       What do we have on this "Insectopia"?

                 CARPENTER
       Scattered reports, sir.  Rumors.
       Nothing reliable.

                 FORMICA
       Desperate times call for desperate
       measures.  Get me Ant Team Six.

                 CARPENTER
              (frightened)
       Ant Team Six...

EXT.  GRASS JUNGLE - DAY

Z and Bala are lost, wandering through the grass

                 BALA
              (looking hopeless)
       I swear, we've passed this blade of
       grass three times.

Z keeps marching on.

                 BALA
       Face it, Z, we're lost!  We must have
       walked halfway across the world by
       now!  How did I get into this mess...

                 Z
              (too shy to look at
               her)
       Come on...tell me there wasn't just
       a little...something between us that
       first night at the bar.  The night we
       danced.

                 BALA
              (sadly)
       What difference does it make...we're
       both going to starve to death, or get
       squished, or set on fire...

But Z is just gawking.  The shot expands to show that they
have stumbled onto...

                 Z
       ...The land of red and white...

EXT. FALSE INSECTOPIA - DAY

A PICNICGROUNDS...A red and white picnic blanket, which to
the ants looks like a vast, undulating pavilion, stretches
before them.  They gaze up at two obelisks: a salt and pepper
shaker.

Behind that is a gigantic tupperware jar full of potato
salad, and sandwiches stacked high.  It all looks perfect,
with the clean lines and monumental proportions of fascist
architecture.  In fact, it looks a little too perfect.

                 Z
       We've found it!  Insectopia!  Look at
       all this food'

                 BALA
              (amazed)
       You were right...you were right!
              (smiling happily)
       Z, it's beautiful!

                 Z
       Let's dig in!

Z goes over to a gigantic sandwich, but -- BOOIIING! -- he's
prevented from getting at it by the saran wrap covering it.

                 Z
       There's - there's some kind of force
       field!

Bala joins him, laboring against the saran wrap.  Then both
of them hear laughter from above.

                 MALE WASP (O.S.)
              (lockjawed accent)
       Muffy, look, party-crashers.

                 FEMALE WASP (O.S.)
              (laughing)
       They're simply too much, Chip!

Bala and Z look up to see two large, yellow WASPS hovering in
the air above them.  The husband and wife wasps have
lockjawed, William F. Buckleyesque accents.

                 MALE WASP
              (to Z and Bala)
       You down there, haven't you ever been
       to a picnic?

                 Z
       Hunh?

                 FEMALE WASP
       Habla Ingles?
              (to Male Wasp)
       Well I really don't know who they are.

                 Z
       We're ants!

The Male Wasp zooms in closer.

                 MALE WASP
       Poopsie, we know some ants, don't we?
              (to Z)
       Are you related to the Fifth Avenue
       ants?

                 FEMALE WASP
       Darling, do you have to talk to any
       insect from off the street?

                 MALE WASP
       Just being friendly, Poopsie.

                 BALA
       Hello?  I'm not just "any insect".
       My mother is the Queen.
              (momentously)
       I'm Princess Bala!

                 MALE WASP
              (under his breath)
       They're Eurotrash, dear.

We hear a loud RUMBLING noise -- the family is about to sit
down for their picnic lunch.  Gigantic hands reach down and
pull away the "force fields".

                 MALE WASP
       Lunch!
              (to Z)
       A little piece of advice, sport --
       bob and weave!  Bob and weave!

                 BALA
       What do you mean?

                 MALE WASP
       Well -- like my father used to say --
       there's no such thing as a free meal!

The wasps dive in to the picnic, darting in for a bite, and
then dashing away again...

                 THE WASPS
       Excuse me -- I'll have some potato
       salad -- thank-you! -- don't mind if
       I do!  After you! (etc.)

-- But all is not well.  We pull back to reveal that Z and
Bala are standing in front of a giant sneaker logo, which is
attached to a giant sneaker.  Which moves.

                 Z
       I sort of imagined Insectopia a
       little differently --

Just at that moment, we hear a whistling in the air -- and
the female wasp is crushed by a huge swatter that sweeps out
of the sky, sending the picnic blanket billowing up in an
aftershock that throws Bala and Z to the ground.

                 BALA
       Oh...my...God.

                 MALE WASP
              (shaking her)
       Muffy!  Muffy!  Wake up!

But she doesn't move.  The Male Wasp stares up at the sky.

                 MALE WASP
              (heartbroken)
       WHYYYYYYYYYYYYY????

But Z, also looking up, has no time to commiserate.

                 Z
       Bala, look out!!

They are only saved by the fact that they are so small - .the
holes of the swatter pass over them.

The woman, realizing that the swatter won't work on ants,
throws it to the side and tries stomping on them...

Before Bala can get away, a sneaker falls on her with a
thunderous BOOM that shakes the ground.

                 BALA
       MMMffllmmm...

The shoe rises, as the person wearing it steps away...and we
see that Bala is stuck in one of the ridges of the waffle-
soled sneaker, adhering to a big piece of bubblegum!

                 BALA
       Z!  Help me!!!

But Bala is carried off on the sneaker in a huge, looping,
ferris-wheel-like motion.  BOOM.  The sneaker on which Bala
is stuck falls again, as the woman tries to step on Z, too --

                 Z
       Bala!
              (mournfully)
       I'll never see her again...

-- But he does, instantly, as the shoe rises again, showing
Bala stuck deeper in the bubblegum --

                 BALA
       Z!!!  Get me out of heeeeere!

-- The woman has decided to walk away from the picnic to get
the bubblegum off her shoe...Z heart sinks as the shoe Bala's
stuck on lopes off into the distance...

                 Z
              (thinks)
       These things always come in twos...

He sees a SECOND SHOE starting to rise --

                 Z
       Take me to your leader!

Z runs towards the shoe as it rises... and at the last moment
catches on to the snaky, swinging shoe-lace.

                 Z
       Whoooooooaaaa!!!

The sneaker lifts off into the air, with Z holding on for
dear life to the lace, and getting further and further away
from Bala as he's drawn to a vertiginous height...the
landscape can be seen rolling and pitching crazily in the
background...

                 Z
       Bala!  Come back here!

For a moment, the sneaker seems to pause in the air...then it
descends again, in a stomach-churning, roller-coaster free-
fall as the sneaker on which Bala is stuck rises up again...

                 BALA
       Z!!!!!!!  I'm stuck!

--  But Z is trying to keep his lunch down as he descends.
The sneaker hits the ground, and Z can feel himself
again...it's now or never.

                 Z
              (Tarzan whoop)
       Aa-ee-ya-ee-yaaaaaaaah!!!!!!!

As the sneaker rises again, he swings off the lace, hurtling
through the air and catching one of the laces of Bala's
sneaker...the momentum swings him up and under the sole...

                 BALA
       Z!  You're here!

Z gets smashed into the bubblegum next to Bala.  Now he's
stuck too.

                 Z
              (ruefully)
       Yeah.  I'm here.

The sneaker descends again.  Z and Bala hold hands and SCREAM
as they see the ground rise too meet them...

THUD!  They're squished deeper into the bubblegum.  The
sneaker rises again...

                 BALA
              (emotional)
       Z...if we don't make it...I just want
       you to know....

                 Z
              (touched)
       Yes?

                 BALA
       This is all your fault!!!

The sneaker rises, and seems ready to fall again...but
instead it just hovers there.  (The person wearing it is
balancing on one leg and about to scrape off the bubblegum
with a penny).

                 Z
       We're safe...

Just then, the hand holding the penny looms up...the penny
is, by ant standards, about sixty feet high.  The huge image
of Abraham Lincoln stares down at them.

                 Z
       Who the hell is that?!!!

The penny starts scrapes the bubblegum off the sneaker,
bringing Bala and Z along with it.  They're carried through
the air as the penny gets thrown away...turning over and over
in a lopsided orbit as Bala and Z SCREAM...

...and land with a CRASH in total darkness.

EXT. LAKE - DAY

The "lake" where Z and Bala were nearly drowned by the water
droplet.

The earth shakes as a HUGE, MONSTROUS creature approaches the
lake - and begins to drink from it.  The creature seems to
hear something, and, growling, turns its ugly head.  It's a
Pomeranian, one of those yappy little lap-dogs -- but seen
from ant perspective, it's something out of a horror movie.

                 TOUGH VOICE (O.S.)
       Ant Team Six -- take him out!

The monster bears its huge fangs at the approaching
intruders -- a bunch of flying ants who look as though
they're attacking the Death Star!

The monster rears and snaps at two of the ants, who are
making a diversionary run...

and then gets it from the rest of the ants, who land on his
soft, wet nose and start stinging away like crazy.

The monster rears back in pain -- and runs away, YIPPING!

The members of ANT TEAM SIX, a crack team of hardcore flying-
ant commandoes a la Seal Team Six, break off the attack and
land.

                 MAJOR MANDIBLE
       And don't come back, you sissy!

MAJOR MANDIBLE, Ant Team Six's lethal commander, steps into
frame.  He's the one-eyed killer we met in the bar earlier.
The rest of his team fan out to search the area.

                 MANDIBLE
       Talk to me.

                 COMMANDO ANT
       Z and the Princess were here, sir.
       Signs of a struggle.

                 MANDIBLE
       Let's get a read on that feremone
       track.

                 COMMANDO ANT #1
              (to the others)
       Get the sniffer!

Two other commandoes come running up with what looks like a
piece of machinery on a tripod -- only it's an ant -- a
highly specialized, blind ant with an incredibly acute sense
of smell.

                 TRACKER ANT
       Bala...find Bala...

The tracker, drool running out of its long proboscis, sniffs
the air and starts signalling like a geiger counter...

                 TRACKER ANT
              (as he's swivelled)
       Nnononononononoyeahyeahnononononono
       no...

Finally the tracker stops swivelling, pointing in one
direction and saying, "Yeahyeahyeahyeah..."

                 COMMANDO ANT #3
       Got 'em!  Ten clicks from here!

                 MANDIBLE
       Z -- you dirt-digging, fancy-dancing,
       wisecracking, royalty-grabbing, rebel
       SCUM!
              (yelling into the
               distance)
       I AM COMING FOR YOU!  YOU ARE ONE
       DEAD ANT, MISTER!

Mandible's muscles bulge.  The veins in his head throb.  This
is one ass-kicking ant.  Even Mandible's troops look scared
of him.

                 MANDIBLE
       Let's MOVE!  GO, people!  GO!  GO!
       GO!  GO!  GO!

Ant Team Six takes to the air, heading in the direction
indicated by the tracker ant.

INT. TRASH BAG - DAY

Darkness.  Out of it we hear the voices of Z and Bala.

                 BALA
       Come on, Z.

                 Z
       Forget it.  You go ahead, I give up.
       I...I don't know what I was thinking.
       "Insectopia".

In one corner of the screen, we can see an irregular little
hole through which a shaft of light is falling.  Bala
proceeds towards it, the hole appears to get bigger and
bigger...

                 Z
              (defeated)
       There's only one thing worse than an
       ant who goes around mindlessly
       following orders, and that's an ant
       who's too dumb to go around
       mindlessly following orders.

Bala stops...she notices that they're being watched.  She's
emerging from a tied off garbage bag -- the yellow ties loop
away gracefully.  Bala and Z have been tossed into a garbage
area.  And above them and below them, peering from garbage
cans, recycling containers, bags, etc., a multi-cultural
assortment of insects are regarding them.

A laid-back FLY voices their thoughts.

                 FLY
       What's with the bummer attitude?

A nearby BUTTERFLY joins in.

                 BUTTERFLY
       Yeah -- nobody stresses out in
       Insectopia!

                 BALA
       Did you say...

                 Z
              (joining Bala)
       ...Insectopia?

Z and Bala look around.  Just to get things straight, the
garbage dump doesn't look disgusting -- that would be seeing
it through human eyes.  Instead, we're looking at it through
ant eyes -- and, reimagined this way, it's Paradise.  Not the
ordered, sterile, paradise of the picnic, but an earthly land
of plenty.

The sides of the plastic garbage bags are sheer, reflective
walls of smoothest obsidian...the garbage cans are gigantic,
thick metal columns put there by the gods (think the
pyramids); a coke bottle, refracting the sunlight into a
gorgeous rainbow, trickles a fountain of sweet nectar into
the pink, bittersweet flesh of a grapefruit half, which
appears as a multi-chambered concave dome.  Everywhere,
insects are disporting themselves -- a multi- species love-in
that's like an insect version of Woodstock.

Bala and Z are awe-struck.  Bala turns to Z.

                 BALA
              (happily)
       Z, we made it!

                 FLY
              (alighting on the
               grapefruit)
       C'mon in!  The nectar's fine!

Like a kid at an amusement park, Z slides down the smooth
side of the garbage bag, whooshing this way and that until he
slides into one end of a straw (a red and white striped
tunnel), and is shot out...

                 Z
       Yippeeeeee!

...into a bottle-cap filled with lemonade, which he
alternately drinks and swims through...

Down at the bottlecap, Z is drying himself off.  Then he
sees, emerging from behind a lemon peel, a gigantic TERMITE.

                 Z
              (terrified)
       AAAAAGH!!!

Surprisingly, the termite seems equally terrified...

                 FLY
              (to Z)
       Hey, take it easy!  There's nothin'
       to be afraid of!

                 Z
       Yeah, well, I make it a practice not
       to trust anyone who shoots acid out
       of their forehead.

                 CRICKET
       Dude, here in Insectopia, we don't
       judge people by how many arms and
       legs we've got.

                 FLY
       Yeah, back home, they called me a
       fruitfly.  But here, I'm known
       as...
              (with attitude)
       Superfly.

                 CRICKET
       Anyway, big Gus is mellow.

The termite sticks his hand out.  A drop of acid drips from
his head and splashes at Z's feet.

                 Z
              (taking his hand,
               disgusted)
       Charmed.

Z reaches out and shakes the termite's hand, as Bala watches,
smiling.

                                      CUT TO:

EXT. INSECTOPIA - NIGHT

The insects are having a cookout, their faces illuminated by
the still-red ember of a match.  Platters heaped with food
lie untouched as they pat their bellies...

Z and Bala sit next to one another, smiling shyly as if they
had just met for the first time.

                 Z
       So...you never did tell me...what
       made you come out to the worker bar
       that night?

                 BALA
       Just looking for fun, adventure,
       trouble, I guess.

                 Z
       Well, "trouble" is my middle name.
       Actually, my  middle name is .985,
       but I don't tell people.  Hey, Bala,
       I...I actually have something of
       yours...you left it at the bar that
       night.

Z takes out Bala's scarf, which he's been keeping folded in
a pocket.

                 Z
       Sorry, it's been through a war, not
       to mention everything else...

                 BALA
       You held onto this all that time?

                 Z
       Well, I...I know it's a little
       strange, but...I thought it might
       come in handy if I...needed a scarf
       someday.
              (embarrassed)
       Well, to be honest, I just liked
       having it.

He hands it back to her.  Bala looks at Z, frankly, openly.
For a moment Z is shy.  Then he looks at her too.  They're
two lovers, leaning closer, about to have their first kiss,
when --

                 BEETLE
       Hey Z!

The moment is wrecked.  Z looks up.  A chubby beetle stands
there with Gus the termite.

                 BEETLE
       Wanna bring back dessert?  There's a
       thirty foot long blimp in the next
       can, made completely of chocolate!

                 Z
              (annoyed)
       Sure.  I wasn't busy or anything.

Z gets up to go with them.

                 Z
       Great timing, guys.  Ever wonder why
       they call you "pests"?

EXT.  INSECTOPIA, TOP OF CAN - NIGHT

As Ant Team Six lands and takes up position above the feast.
The tracker ant is going nuts.

                 TRACKER ANT
       Yesyesyesyesyes --

One of the commandoes puts his hand over the tracker's mouth
to shut him up.  Mandible communicates with his troops by
pulling down his one functional antenna and gruffly
whispering into it, as though it were one of those commando
headsets.  His troops do likewise.

                 MANDIBLE
       Talk to me.

                 COMMANDO #1
       I've got a read on the Princess --
       but target Z isn't accounted for.

                 MANDIBLE
       Let's move in.

EXT. INSECTOPIA - NIGHT

Back at the feast, a cricket strums on his legs like a
guitar, opining about life and the universe to a bunch of
other chilled-out, hippyesque insects...Bala taps her feet to
the song.

                 CRICKET
       What if, like...we're just these tiny
       little things, and we're just like
       part of this whole other huge
       universe, that's like, so big we
       don't even know it exists?

                 LADYBUG
       Man...that's so deep...

At that moment Ant Team Six rapels down from the top of the
garbage bin, landing amongst the insects.

                 MANDIBLE
       EVERYBODY DOWN!

The cricket gets up to confront Mandible, but Mandible cold
cocks him with a right to the jaw.  The other insects, too
surprised to fight, just do as they're told.

                 MANDIBLE
       Alright, you hippy scum!  Make one
       move and I'll exterminate you!

A couple of commandoes grab Bala by the arms and heave her up.

                 BALA
       Stop!  You don't understand!

                 MANDIBLE
       I don't have to understand, Missy --
       I've got orders.  Now where's Z?

                                      CUT TO:

INT. INSECTOPIA - NIGHT

Z, the termite, the beetle and the fly are happily carrying
a huge M&M back to the feast.

                 FLY
       Man, your girl is fly, know what I'm
       saying?

                 Z
              (overdoing it)
       Oh, Bala?  I guess she's okay, you
       know, for a princess.  I mean, I
       usually date queens, or you know,
       empresses, because sometimes the
       lesser nobility are too much in awe
       of my smouldering sensuality.  Please
       stop me if I'm making you feel
       inadequate.

They throw down the M&M, which lands with a THUD.  Z notices
that the rest of the insects look spooked.

                 Z
       What's the matter?  This place is as
       cheery as a Roach Motel at check-out
       time.

Z looks around.

                 LADYBUG
       Bala's been kidnapped!  Some flying
       ants took her back to the colony!

                 Z
       She's been kidnapped?!  But I can't
       live without her!

Z just stands there, heartbroken.

                 Z
              (determined)
       I'm going back.  I've got to get her.
       Who'll come with me?

Z looks around.  Nobody's volunteering.  Nothing but sheepish
looks and shuffling from the insects of Insectopia.

Z looks disheartened.  He's about to leave when --

                 MALE WASP (O.S.)
       I'll go.

The male wasp is hovering nearby.

                 Z
              (surprised)
       You?!

                 MALE WASP
       I know what it's like to lose
       someone...I keep hearing the sound of
       Muffy's flapping wings...so I'll take
       you.

Z hops on the wasp's back.

                 Z
       Let's go, pal!

The wasp takes off, leaving the other insects looking a
little chastized.

                 FLY
       Geez.  I feel like a real stinkbug.

                                      CUT TO:

EXT. SKY ABOVE COLONY - MORNING

The wasp and Z fly high above the colony...

                 Z
       Wow...I never saw things this way...

From here, we can see the whole layout of the land around the
colony...the "desert" (an asphalt path) and across it, the
"lake" (the overflowing water fountain)

                 Z
       Things look so close together from up
       here...there's the desert...and the
       lake...
              (thinking about
               something)
       it's not far from the colony at all...

Suddenly, the wasp bounces up and down in the air.

                 MALE WASP
       Sorry.  Turbulence.

INT. FORMICA'S CHAMBERS - DAY

Formica sits at his desk, going over some plans.  Formica's
chambers are located inside a snake skull, with the eye
sockets serving as windows, and the mouth serving as a door.
The walls are hung with trophies -- the heads of other
insects.

Ant Team Six burst in the doors of Formica's office, carrying
the struggling and kicking Bala.  One of the commandoes sets
the tracker ant one the floor...then Formica gets up from his
desk as the commandoes bring the princess to him.

                 FORMICA
       Princess Bala.  Good.
              (with urgency)
       Where's Z?

Bala replies warily.

                 BALA
       He's...he's dead.
              (covering for Z)
       You don't have to look for him
       anymore.  He was eaten by a praying
       mantis.

                 FORMICA
              (regretfully)
       It's a shame he died prematurely...I
       was hoping to kill him myself.

                 BALA
       Well you'll never be able to hurt him
       where he is now.
              (sadly)
       I miss him already.

                 FORMICA
              (surprised)
       You miss him?  Why?

                 BALA
              (angry)
       Because...because he's twice the ant
       that you are.  I could never go
       through with marrying you.  I'm --
       I'm an individual, and when I get
       married, it'll be to someone I choose.

The soldiers look shocked.  For a moment, Formica looks
furious.  Then he just shrugs.

                 FORMICA
              (shaking his head)
       Princess Bala, I'm just a simple old
       soldier, and the ways of the feminine
       mind are a little too complex for me.
       But one thing I do know is, there are
       more Princesses where you came from.
       I just hope they're not all like you.
       In the meantime, maybe we can arrange
       for you to see Z again after all.

He gestures to the commandoes, who drag her out the door.  We
notice that the tracker ant has been left behind.

EXT. ANT MOUND - DAY

Z hops down from the wasp, who has landed near the entrance
to the colony.

                 MALE WASP
       Good luck, Z.  For a wingless insect,
       you're alright by me.

                 Z
       Thanks, Chip.

They shake hands and the wasp flies off.

                 Z
              (to himself)
       How am I going to get in?  The place
       is crawling with soldiers!

Z starts for the nearest entrance -- but he's spotted by a
couple of SOLDIER ANTS.

                 SOLDIER ANT
       You there!  Worker!

Z's caught -- it's over.  He turns around with his hands up.

                 Z
       Don't bite!  I surrender!

                 SOLDIER ANT
       What are you doing out here!  All
       workers are to remain inside the
       colony, by orders of General Formica!

Z can't believe his luck -- and his curiosity is piqued.

                 Z
              (heading inside)
       Well...if you insist...

INT. MEGATUNNEL - DAY

The Queen, with Formica striding at her side, is carried by
a personal escort of fifty or so struggling workers to the
bottom end of the Mega Tunnel, where a red ribbon waits to be
cut.

                 QUEEN
       Very impressive, General.

Behind her, hundreds of thousands of workers are crowded,
looking confused and expectant.  Some of them clutch little
flags and noisemakers...

                 MANDIBLE
       Wave that flag, you maggot!

...which we see are being handed out to them by Ant Team Six.

                 FORMICA
       Is there anything wrong, your majesty?

The Queen is looking around unhappily.

                 QUEEN
       It's just...How I miss Bala.  I wish
       she were here for this special moment.

Formica warmly places his hand on the Queen's shoulder.

                 FORMICA
              (falsely supportive)
       She is, your majesty.  She is.

The CAMERA heads up the long, long tunnel, where we see...

INT. MID SKYLIGHT TUNNEL

Bala, tied and gagged.  She's at the point in the Megatunnel
where it begins to curve upwards towards the surface.  She
struggles against her bonds, but can't get loose.

                                      CUT TO:

INT. ANT MOUND - DAY

Elsewhere in the colony, a column of soldiers marches by, and
we hear the TROMP-TROMP-TROMP of their boots.  When they've
gone, Z pokes his head out from behind a pile of dirt...he
heads in the opposite direction of the soldiers...

INT. OUTSIDE FORMICA'S CHAMBERS - DAY

Z creeps around the outside of Formica's chambers.  This part
of the colony seems to be deserted.

                 Z
       Geez, this place really empties out
       in August.  Where is everybody?

Z walks up to the skull that houses Formica's chambers and
peeks in the eye socket.

INT. FORMICA'S CHAMBERS

Inside, the Tracker Ant, who's been left behind, switches
"on", eyes glowing.  Z enters the chamber cautiously.

                 TRACKER ANT
              (sniffing)
       Z!  Z!  I smell Z!

For a moment, Z's afraid.  Then he sees the small Tracker Ant
doesn't seem hostile.

                 Z
       You "smell" me?  Well look, I -- I've
       been out in the wilderness for a
       while, and --

The tracker ant keeps sniffing.  Z waves his hand in front of
the blind ant's eyes.

                 Z
              (getting it)
       Hey, wait, you're...you're one of
       those pheremone sniffers, aren't you?
       Maybe you can help me...I'm looking
       for a friend of mine, Princess Bala.

                 TRACKER ANT
              (enthusiastic)
       Bala!  Yeahyeahyeahyeahyeah!  Find
       Bala!  Yeahyeahyeahyeah!

Z picks up the tracker ant.

                 Z
       Just remember, I met her first.

Z, carrying the little tracker ant, heads out, following its
lead...

Through this and that passage, as the Tracker Ant gets more
and more insistent...And finally straight to a blank wall.

                 TRACKER ANT
       Yeahyeahyeahyeahyeahyeahyeah...

                 Z
       Bala's through there?

                 TRACKER ANT
       Bala...Yeahyeahyeahyeahyeahyeah...

                 Z
       Great.  More digging.  This is why I
       left in the first place.

Z can answer his own question.  He puts down the tracker ant,
with a look on his face like a kid forced to eat broccoli,
starts digging through the wall...

INT. SKYLIGHT APEX - DAY

Meanwhile, A member of Ant Team Six -- the stupidest member,
in fact, waits at the very top of the tunnel, where it
narrows almost to a point.  He's hanging from a winch, and
has a little hammer and chisel in his hand.  He's WHISTLING,
awaiting instructions.

INT. MEGA-TUNNEL - DAY

Z emerges from the tunnel he's dug, spits a load of dirt out
of his mouth and wipes his hands off.  Nearby, Bala lies
there, bound and gagged.

                 Z
       Bala!

Z unties Bala and undoes her gag.

                 BALA
       Z!  You came back!

They HUG.

                 Z
       Why do they have you tied up here?

                 BALA
       There's something going on, Z --

From here, Z can see far down the tunnel to where the crowd
is gathering.

                 BALA
       They're having a ceremony to open the
       Megatunnel...

We can hear the sound of WATER SHIFTING somewhere above.  He
looks up the tunnel...in the distance, we can make out the
silhouete of the commando set to break open the wall...

                 Z
       Bala, that -- that lake we found --
       I think the tunnel's right underneath
       it!
              (horrified)
       -- Formica's going to flood the
       colony!!!  That's what he meant when
       said there were too many ants!

                 BALA
       Oh no...

Bala looks too shocked to move.  Z starts pushing her into
the tunnel he made, and starts heading down towards the crowd.

                 BALA
       Z!  what are you doing?

                 Z
       I know it's crazy, but -- I can't
       just leave.  Don't argue with me.  If
       I've learned anything, it's that the
       problems of two people don't add up
       to a hill of ants in this world.  Or
       beans.  Something like that.  Anyway,
       I've got to warn the others.

Z looks into Bala's eyes.

                 Z
       Head for the surface, Bala.  If I
       don't make it, well...we'll always
       have Insectopia.

Z kisses Bala.  Then he starts running down the tunnel
towards the crowd...

                 BALA
              (following him)
       Z!!! Wait for me!

INT. ANT MOUND - DAY

All the SOLDIERS are filtering out of the assembly area,
leaving the workers behind.  As his troops march by, Formica
steps to the side and hands the Queen a pair of scissors to
cut the ribbon strung across the Megatunnel.

                 FORMICA
       Your majesty, I'm afraid matters of
       state keep me from attending the
       ceremony.

                 QUEEN
       But General -- this tunnel is your
       baby!  You're sure you can't stay ?

                 FORMICA
       'Fraid not, your majesty.
              (with regret)
       Goodbye, your majesty.

                 QUEEN
       Very well, General -- I know you --
       all work and no play!

                 FORMICA
       Alright, let's move out!

Formica, surrounded by his bodyguards, hurries off as the
Queen readies to cut the ribbon...

                 QUEEN
       In the name of the colony, I declare
       this tunnel open!

INT. MEGA-TUNNEL - DAY

Z and Bala sprint towards the bottom end of the tunnel...

                 Z
       Stoooooop!

-- and then pull back to see Queen cut the ribbon -- she
looks up and sees --

                 QUEEN
       Bala!

                 BALA
       Mom!

Z calls out to the crowd.

                 Z
       Listen up!  We've all got to get out
       of here!  This place is going to
       flood!

The workers are unconvinced.

                 WORKER #1
       Are you nuts?

                 Z
       You've got to believe me!

                 WORKER #2
       Oh yeah?  What makes you so special,
       Mr. Know-It-All?

                 Z
       I'm Z.

The workers are even more sceptical.  A laugh goes up from
the crowd.

                 WORKER #3
       You're Z?  Gimme a break!  Z's ten
       milimeters tall!

                 WORKER #4
       -- and he can kill termites with his
       bare hands!  You're just some scrawny
       worker with a mental problem!

                 Z
       I am Z!

                 WORKER #1
       No you're not!

                 WEAVER
       Yes he is.

Weaver steps out of the crowd.

                 Z
       Weaver!

Weaver runs up to Z and hugs him, starting to cry.

                 WORKERS
       Hey...it is Z...listen to what he
       says! [etc].

                 WEAVER
       Z...I'm so sorry!  I --

                 Z
       Don't worry about it, pal.

Nearby, Bala and the Queen hug.  The Queen looks over at Z.

                 QUEEN
              (distastefully)
       Oh...it's that social-climbing worker
       again -- what does he want?

                 Z
              (in response)
       To save you all!  Now we've got to go!

                                      CUT TO:

EXT. ANT MOUND - DAY

Outside of the colony, where Formica, surrounded by the army,
gives a signal to Mandible by drawing his finger across his
throat...

                 MANDIBLE
              (talking into his
               antenna)
       Let 'er rip!

INT. SKYLIGHT APEX - DAY

AT THE TOP OF THE TUNNEL, the commando starts chiseling away
furiously at the wall...and nothing but dust falls down.  The
commando looks at the dust as it falls down, down the long
tunnel...he looks up at the dry wall...Hmmm...

Then...

THE WALL BURSTS OPEN.

And a TORRENT starts pouring out -- swallowing the terrified
commando as if he were a crumb and heading down the tunnel
like a freight train, ripping up the walls as it goes...

INT. EARLY MEGA-TUNNEL - DAY

Everyone turns to hear the rumbling sound coming down the
tunnel --

                 AZTECA
       Listen!

                 WORKER #1
       He's right!!!

From here, we can see deep into the tunnel, at the point
where it levels out...and the torrent can be seen rushing
down at them...

                 Z
       LET'S MOVE IT!

All of a sudden there's panic as every ant tries to scramble
away from the oncoming water...in the confusion, the Queen's
bearers drop her and scramble over her.

                 QUEEN
       You there!  Stop!  I say!

The Queen turns, and for a brief moment is silhouetted
against the white-capped torrent of water...

...and then she picks her abdomen up like a skirt and high
tails it away from the torrent, running so fast that she
passes some of her bearers on the way...

And then the torrent spits out of the mouth of the
Megatunnel, quickly filling up the chamber and branching into
all of its side tunnels, as we see:

A group of workers RUNNING up a side tunnel and getting
consumed by a wave, which crashes down on them like a hand
slapping a table...

Another group, the members of which are getting swallowed up
one by one; one of the ants runs up on the ceiling of the
tunnel and keeps on going, upside-down...it works for a while
but eventually he, too is swallowed up...

-- In the Nursery, nurses are evacuating stacks of crying ant
babies...

In one of the larger access-tunnels, down which thousands of
workers are fleeing, a group of ants turns and decides to
make a stand for it -- they link up in a mass and form a
LIVING DAM.  It holds for a while but then BURSTS scattering
and smashing ants along the sides of the tunnel before eating
them up...

And we...

                                      CUT TO:

INT. TOWN CENTER - DAY

The huge main chamber of the colony, where most of the
workers -- as well as Z, Bala, Weaver, Azteca, and the
Queen -- have run to.

The chamber is rapidly flooding from all sides.  Water flows
out of every escape tunnel the workers try...and the crowd is
becoming more and more closely packed together as the waters
rise around them.

                 AZTECA
       There's no way out!

                 QUEEN
       We're all going to drown!!!

                 BALA
       Z...what can we do?

Z clenches his fist...he feels utterly powerless...then he
shouts...

                 Z
       Dig!

The workers turn to look at him questioningly.

                 Z
       We've got to dig a trench around us!

-- But one of the workers raises his hands.

                 WORKER #1
       Uh...we don't dig any more.  We're
       individuals.

                 WORKER #2
       Yeah.  We're too important to dig.
       You taught us that, Z.  You hate
       digging!

                 Z
              (at his wits end)
       Yeah, but I hate drowning more!  Now
       dig!

                 WEAVER
       You heard the ant -- DIG!!!

The workers start to dig a circular moat around themselves,
passing the dirt back into the middle of what remains of the
dry ground.

-- But they seems to be making little headway against the
water as it continues to rush in...

The ant labor we saw up to now were nothing compared to
this.   As the moat gets deeper, the pile grows higher and
higher...Weaver is digging up huge chunks of earth...nearby,
Azteca is digging like crazy too...Z runs around, directing
traffic and encouraging the workers...

                 Z
       That's it!  Pass the dirt back to the
       center!  Go on!

Nearby the Queen stands there, looking squeamish.

                 Z
       Your highness...time to get your
       hands dirty!

Gingerly, the Queen reaches out for a clod of dirt...and
passes it along.  Next thing you know, she's practically
crushed by a huge load thrown up by Weaver.

The water keeps rushing in...but now we notice that...

...the pile of dirt in the middle of the "island" created by
the digging of the moat is growing higher and higher,
reaching up towards the ceiling of the chamber...

...And the water is getting swallowed up by the moat,
swirling around angrily.

Now Z looks up, and sees that with a little more effort they
can reach the top --

                 Z
       We need to form a scaffolding around
       this mound -- let's DO IT!

The workers start to cluster around the mound, covering it,
forming a tight network of living bodies around the mound up
towards the ceiling...

                 Z
       Now climb!

The ants start to scale the scaffolding, up towards the top
of the chamber...it's a swarming mass of ants, hauling each
other up, giving each other legs up, climbing ever and ever
higher towards the top...

Where they start to dig through the very ceiling...

...as, at the bottom of the mound, Z starts to organize the
hauling away of the Queen, as though she were a big cargo
container...

                 Z
       Okay boys -- take her up!

Z slaps the Queen on the butt, and she's winched away on a
cable composed entirely of ants linked arm in arm like those
plastic toy monkeys...

EXT. ANT MOUND - DAY

...And Azteca's head pokes through the ground...she hauls
herself up, and hundreds of ants pour up from the ground,
widening the hole...

INT. TOWN CENTER - DAY

The water is rising...but almost all of the ants have
escaped...Z clambers up the mound, as the scaffolding of ants
rolls up from the bottom....

And the rushing water finally wears down the earthen core of
the structure.  As Z hauls himself through the hole in the
ceiling.

The entire structure collapses into the angry waters below,
which seem furious to have missed their prey...

EXT. ANT MOUND - DAY

                 WORKER
       He did it!  Z!  Z!  Z!  Z!  Z!

The "Z" cheer goes up, with everyone joining in.  But the
jubilation is short-lived, for, appearing on the ridge,
surrounding the workers, is FORMICA'S ARMY, circling the mass
of workers, backing them in towards the roiling water behind
them.  Formica himself appears in the front lines, with
Carpenter and Mandible at his side.

                 FORMICA
       Z.  I should have known.  All that
       work, all that preparation, come to
       nothing.  All because of one stinking
       ant.

He steps forward to address the surrounded, trapped workers.

                 FORMICA
       ALRIGHT.  WHICH ONE OF YOU IS Z?

The workers, trembling but silent, cower inside the unbroken
circle of soldiers.

                 FORMICA
       WHAT ARE YOU, DEAF?  I ASKED YOU,
       WHERE'S Z?

Formica laughs, shaking his head.

                 FORMICA
       Folks, you may have survived that
       flood, but there's no way you're
       gonna escape from me.  I'll make you
       a deal.  Hand over the rebel leader
       Z, and you survive.

This sends a ripple of murmurs through the workers.

                 FORMICA
       But if you don't hand him over,
       you're all going to die, each and
       every single..."individual" one of
       you.

The workers all look at each other.

                 FORMICA
       What shall it be, workers?

The workers remain frightened but silent.  Z trembles,
terrified.

                 FORMICA
       Have it your way.

As Formica raises his swagger stick to order the attack, a
lone figure steps out from the crowd.

                 Z
       Wait...

Z stands there, shivering with fear.

                 Z
       ...I'm Z.

For a moment, Z stands alone, under the glare of Formica's
gaze.

Then another figure steps out from the throng of workers.

                 WEAVER
       No, I'm Z.

Z turns, astonished, to see Weaver, still and unwavering,
bravely risking his life for his friend.  Then, AZTECA also
steps forward.

                 AZTECA
       I'm Z!

Next, Bala comes forward.

                 BALA
       No, I'm Z.

More and more ants step forward.

                 WORKERS
       I'm Z!  I'm Z!  I'm Z and so is my
       brother!  I've been Z for weeks now!

                 QUEEN
              (regally)
       We are Z.

Now, the workers are all shouting the same declaration.

                 ALL
       I am Z!  I am Z!  I am Z!

Z is plainly flabbergasted.  Formica is outraged.  He gives
the signal.

                 FORMICA
       ATTACK!

The army swells forward on all sides, pushing the workers
towards the swirling water.  Some workers surround the Queen
to protect her.  All seems lost, when THE FLY from Insectopia
alights on the rim of the horizon.

                 FLY
       Hey, guys!

THE WASP appears on the other side of the horizon.

                 WASP
       It's them!

Suddenly, on all sides, A MASSIVE INSECT ARMY appears on the
ridge, looking not unlike ambushing Indians in a John Ford
film.  Formica's soldiers stop in their tracks, awed by the
unfolding spectacle.  It looks like all of Insectopia has
turned out: spiders, caterpillars, rhinoceros beetles, all
manner of creatures crawling and flying have shown up, and
now surround the army, dwarfing them.

                 WASP
       Are these hooligans giving you
       trouble, Z?

                 FLY
       Say the word, Z, and we kick their
       butts.

The ant army remains frozen, unsure of what to do next.
Formica is furious.  If ants had veins, Formica's would be
bulging out of his face.

                 FORMICA
       What are you doing?!  ATTACK!!
              (berating his army)
       Come on, you yellow-bellies!
              (turning on Carpenter)
       Don't just stand there, Carpenter!
       Make an example of yourself!

                 CARPENTER
       Uh, actually, we are outnumbered
       sir...

Formica turns towards the insects gathered against him.  With
his chin raised pridefully, Formica steps forward, and
CHARGES Z!

                 FORMICA
       AHHHHHHH!!

Formica runs so quickly and with such force that his helmet
blows off his head.  Z's eyes get big, he stumbles backwards,
slipping, and Formica goes flying over him, toward the
whirlpool behind.  He scrabbles at the edge of the water, and
then tumbles over.

For a moment, it looks as if he's gone.

                 FORMICA (O.S.)
       Help...help me...

Z goes to the edge of the precipice and looks over.  Formica
is struggling in the waters of the very flood he created,
which are roiling not far below.  He looks up into Z's eyes,
a new expression crossing his features: fear.

                 FORMICA
       Please...I...I can't swim...Help me...

Formica goes under for a bit, then his head comes up again --
but he's not going to be able to stay afloat for long...

Suddenly he sees a line dropped down.  Above, Z looks down on
him.

                 Z
       I thought you said that the life of
       one ant doesn't matter.

Formica looks at the line...and in that moment seems to
realize his error...

                 FORMICA
       I guess it does...to the ant.

Formica reaches up and takes the line, and is pulled up by Z
and a bunch of other ants (the line, we see, extends from a
nearby spider, one of the cavalry from Insectopia).

Formica is left, broken and alone, by the precipice, while
HORDES OF ANTS surround Z to congratulate him.  Bala fights
her way to his side and the two of them embrace.  Then the
ants pick up Z and Bala, and, CHEERING, bear them away.

Only Carpenter stays behind.  He walks up to Formica,
carrying his dented and dusty helmet.  He cleans it the best
he can with his jacket sleeve and hands it to his fallen
general.

                 CARPENTER
       Sir, if it's any consolation, I still
       think you're completely worthless as
       an individual.

                                      FADE TO:

CLOSE UP OF Z

As he addresses the audience, stand-up style.

                 Z
       So, uh, that's pretty much it.  Just
       your basic "simple worker overthrows
       the government and winds up with the
       princess" kind of a story.
       You know: there was the big parade
       and everything...

                                      CUT TO:

INT. TOWN CENTER - DAY

A HUGE ASSEMBLY OF ANTS applauds as Z who is given a medal by
the Queen.

                                      CUT TO:

GENERAL FORMICA'S FACE, looking extremely dispeptic.

                 Z (V.O.)
       General Formica was almost
       unemployable.  He eventually got a
       gig as a honeydew keg.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL Formica clinging to a wall, his belly
hideously distended with honeydew.

                 Z (V.O.)
       The Queen asked me to take over his
       job, but I said "Sorry, but I'm
       really not the general type.  I'm
       more the specific type."  So they
       gave the job to Weaver instead.

                                      CUT TO:

WEAVER, in Formica's old office, in a general's uniform, his
feet up on Formica's desk, smoking a cigar.  Carpenter is on
his hands and knees scrubbing the floor.

                 Z (V.O.)
       Weaver cut the defense budget in
       half.  Now we only have an army of
       five million.

cut back to

Z, ADDRESSING THE AUDIENCE.

                 Z
       And me, I guess you could say that I
       lived happily ever after.

Bala enters the frame, embraces and kisses him.

                 Z
       I mean, I've got the whole package,
       right?  A great life, a beautiful
       wife, and a few kids.

                 BALA
       A few?

WE PULL BACK TO REVEAL

INT. Z'S HOUSE - DAY

Z and Bala stand in the midst of their living room, up to
their knees in THOUSANDS OF CHILD ANTS.  The children cover
every horizontal surface.  They run around, cry, laugh, and
tease each other.  Z looks around the room, looks back at us,
and shrugs.

                 Z
       Well, so nothing's perfect.  But you
       know?  I wouldn't change a thing.

The camera pulls up...and away from the ground...to reveal
that this whole story has been taking place in a small area
of CENTRAL PARK.  We pull back and back, and see all the
familiar landmarks from the story: the bike path, the
drinking fountain, etc.  We tilt up into the NEW YORK
SKYLINE.  BIG MUSICAL FLOURISH.

FADE OUT.
