Operator: EXCUSE ME, This is the operator Captain Oever, I have
          an emergency call on line 5 from a Mr. Hamm.
Oever   : Alright, Give me Hamm on 5, hold the Mayo.
Striker : Look, you'll be back in town tomorrow night, we'll...
          have dinner.  We'll talk things over.
Elaine  : I won't be back, I've requested the Atlanta run.
Striker : Elaine, I promise, I can change.
Elaine  : Then why didn't you take the job that Louis Neds
          offered you at Boeing?
Striker : You know I haven't been able to get near a plane since
          since the war.  Even if I could, they wouldn't hire
          me because of my war record.
Elaine  : You're war record ???  You're the only one keeping that
          alive, for everyone else, its ancient history.
Striker : You expect me to believe that?
Elaine  : Its the truth.  What's hurt you the most is your record
          since the war.  Different cities, different jobs and
          not one of them shows you can accept any real
          responsibility.

MIDDLE HEAD:  Yes.
 RIGHT HEAD:  Oh, but not biscuits.
 LEFT HEAD:  All right all right not biscuits, but lets kill him
anyway.
 ALL HEADS:  Right!
 LEFT HEAD:  He buggered off.
 RIGHT HEAD:  So he has, he's scarpered.
MINSTREL (singing):  Brave Sir Robin ran away
 ROBIN:  No!
 MINSTREL (singing):  Bravely ran away away
 ROBIN:  I didn't!
 MINSTREL (singing):  When danger reared its ugly head,
He bravely turned his tail and fled

Marshall Struggles to assemble the hypodermic and the
container of adrenalin.

INT. REAR BAGGAGE HOLD.

Bazylev pulls to his feet, heads back down the gangway.

INT. FRONT GALLEY.

Marshall greets Bazylev with a spray of hot coffee from the
Simmering pot as he enters. Bazylev covers up, but the spray
sears him pretty bad. He yells in pain, turning.

Marshall springs, imbedding the hypodermic needle into
Bazylev's neck. A full dose of adrenalin. Bazylev pulls the
empty needle from his neck. Marshall steps back, waiting for
a reaction.

A pregnant pause as they both wait to see what happens.

Then Bazylev smiles and slowly turns toward Marshall.

Marshall backs away as Bazylev levels his gun.

He fires once, hitting Marshall in the arm. Marshall winces
off the pain.

Z's caught between a rock and a hard place.  He doesn't want
to get beaten up, but on the other hand, he doesn't want to
lose face in front of Bala.  More soldiers have gathered
around, looking hostile.

                 SOLDIER
       How come you don't dance like the
       rest of us?

Z glances over at Bala.  Then, shaking with nervousness, he
says defiantly...

                 Z
       Because -- because I'm an individual!

                 SOLDIER #2
       An individual?  Never heard of it.

                 MANDIBLE
       You look like a worker to me.

                 WEAVER
       Hey, lay off my little buddy!